1:1 Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 
1:2 Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 
1:3 Henoch,Methuselah, Lamech, 
1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
1:5 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, andTubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
1:6 And the sons of Gomer; Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
1:7 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
1:8 The sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
1:9 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah,and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.
1:10 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth.
1:11 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
1:12 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (of whom came the Philistines,) andCaphthorim.
1:13 And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
1:14 The Jebusitealso, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
1:15 And the Hivite, andthe Arkite, and the Sinite, 
1:16 And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite,and the Hamathite.
1:17 The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, andAram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
1:18 And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.
1:19 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg;because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name wasJoktan.
1:20 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, andJerah, 
1:21 Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
1:22 And Ebal, andAbimael, and Sheba, 
1:23 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All thesewere the sons of Joktan.
1:24 Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
1:26 Serug, Nahor,Terah, 
1:27 Abram; the same is Abraham.
1:28 The sons of Abraham; Isaac, and Ishmael.
1:29 These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth;then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
1:30 Mishma, and Dumah, Massa,Hadad, and Tema, 
1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sonsof Ishmael.
1:32 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran,and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And thesons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan.
1:33 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida,and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.
1:34 And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel.
1:35 The sons of Esau; Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, andKorah.
1:36 The sons of Eliphaz; Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz,and Timna, and Amalek.
1:37 The sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
1:38 And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan.
1:39 And the sons of Lotan; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan'ssister.
1:40 The sons of Shobal; Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, andOnam.and the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah.
1:41 The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, andEshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
1:42 The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons ofDishan; Uz, and Aran.
1:43 Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom beforeany king reigned over the children of Israel; Bela the son of Beor:and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
1:44 And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reignedin his stead.
1:45 And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanitesreigned in his stead.
1:46 And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smoteMidian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of hiscity was Avith.
1:47 And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
1:48 And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reignedin his stead.
1:49 And when Shaul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned inhis stead.
1:50 And when Baalhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and thename of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, thedaughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
1:51 Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, dukeAliah, duke Jetheth, 
1:52 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
1:53 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
1:54 Duke Magdiel, duke Iram.These are the dukes of Edom.
2:1 These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,Issachar, and Zebulun, 
2:2 Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad,and Asher.
2:3 The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were bornunto him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, thefirstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slewhim.
2:4 And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All thesons of Judah were five.
2:5 The sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul.
2:6 And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol,and Dara: five of them in all.
2:7 And the sons of Carmi; Achar, the troubler of Israel, whotransgressed in the thing accursed.
2:8 And the sons of Ethan; Azariah.
2:9 The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him; Jerahmeel, andRam, and Chelubai.
2:10 And Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince ofthe children of Judah; 
2:11 And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begatBoaz, 
2:12 And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse, 
2:13 And Jessebegat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma thethird, 
2:14 Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
2:15 Ozem thesixth, David the seventh: 
2:16 Whose sisters were Zeruiah, andAbigail. And the sons of Zeruiah; Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel,three.
2:17 And Abigail bare Amasa: and the father of Amasa was Jether theIshmeelite.
2:18 And Caleb the son of Hezron begat children of Azubah his wife,and of Jerioth: her sons are these; Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
2:19 And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took unto him Ephrath, which barehim Hur.
2:20 And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel.
2:21 And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the fatherof Gilead, whom he married when he was threescore years old; and shebare him Segub.
2:22 And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the landof Gilead.
2:23 And he took Geshur, and Aram, with the towns of Jair, from them,with Kenath, and the towns thereof, even threescore cities. All thesebelonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
2:24 And after that Hezron was dead in Calebephratah, then AbiahHezron's wife bare him Ashur the father of Tekoa.
2:25 And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were, Ram thefirstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.
2:26 Jerahmeel had also another wife, whose name was Atarah; she wasthe mother of Onam.
2:27 And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were, Maaz, andJamin, and Eker.
2:28 And the sons of Onam were, Shammai, and Jada. And the sons ofShammai; Nadab and Abishur.
2:29 And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bare himAhban, and Molid.
2:30 And the sons of Nadab; Seled, and Appaim: but Seled died withoutchildren.
2:31 And the sons of Appaim; Ishi. And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan. Andthe children of Sheshan; Ahlai.
2:32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, andJonathan: and Jether died without children.
2:33 And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sonsof Jerahmeel.
2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had aservant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.
2:35 And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; andshe bare him Attai.
2:36 And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad, 
2:37 And Zabadbegat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed, 
2:38 And Obed begat Jehu, andJehu begat Azariah, 
2:39 And Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begatEleasah, 
2:40 And Eleasah begat Sisamai, and Sisamai begat Shallum,
2:41 And Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.
2:42 Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were, Mesha hisfirstborn, which was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah thefather of Hebron.
2:43 And the sons of Hebron; Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
2:44 And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam: and Rekem begatShammai.
2:45 And the son of Shammai was Maon: and Maon was the father ofBethzur.
2:46 And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez:and Haran begat Gazez.
2:47 And the sons of Jahdai; Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet,and Ephah, and Shaaph.
2:48 Maachah, Caleb's concubine, bare Sheber, and Tirhanah.
2:49 She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father ofMachbenah, and the father of Gibea: and the daughter of Caleb wasAchsa.
2:50 These were the sons of Caleb the son of Hur, the firstborn ofEphratah; Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim.
2:51 Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hareph the father of Bethgader.
2:52 And Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim had sons; Haroeh, and halfof the Manahethites.
2:53 And the families of Kirjathjearim; the Ithrites, and the Puhites,and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zareathites,and the Eshtaulites, 
2:54 The sons of Salma; Bethlehem, and theNetophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, and half of theManahethites, the Zorites.
2:55 And the families of the scribes which dwelt at Jabez; theTirathites, the Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenitesthat came of Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.
3:1 Now these were the sons of David, which were born unto him inHebron; the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the secondDaniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess: 
3:2 The third, Absalom the son ofMaachah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur: the fourth, Adonijahthe son of Haggith: 
3:3 The fifth, Shephatiah of Abital: the sixth,Ithream by Eglah his wife.
3:4 These six were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned sevenyears and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and threeyears.
3:5 And these were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, andNathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel: 
3:6 Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 
3:7 And Nogah, and Nepheg,and Japhia, 
3:8 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
3:9 These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of theconcubines, and Tamar their sister.
3:10 And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son,Jehoshaphat his son, 
3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash hisson, 
3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 
3:13 Ahazhis son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 
3:14 Amon his son, Josiahhis son.
3:15 And the sons of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the secondJehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
3:16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
3:17 And the sons of Jeconiah; Assir, Salathiel his son, 
3:18 Malchiram also, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, andNedabiah.
3:19 And the sons of Pedaiah were, Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and thesons of Zerubbabel; Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith theirsister: 
3:20 And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah,Jushabhesed, five.
3:21 And the sons of Hananiah; Pelatiah, and Jesaiah: the sons ofRephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons ofShechaniah.
3:22 And the sons of Shechaniah; Shemaiah: and the sons of Shemaiah;Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
3:23 And the sons of Neariah; Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam,three.
3:24 And the sons of Elioenai were, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, andPelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.
4:1 The sons of Judah; Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
4:2 And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begatAhumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
4:3 And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Ishma, andIdbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi: 
4:4 And Penuelthe father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sonsof Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.
4:5 And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
4:6 And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, andHaahashtari.These were the sons of Naarah.
4:7 And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.
4:8 And Coz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel theson of Harum.
4:9 And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren: and his mothercalled his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow.
4:10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thouwouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine handmight be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that itmay not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested.
4:11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the fatherof Eshton.
4:12 And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the fatherof Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah.
4:13 And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons ofOthniel; Hathath.
4:14 And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the father ofthe valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen.
4:15 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam:and the sons of Elah, even Kenaz.
4:16 And the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.
4:17 And the sons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, andJalon: and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father ofEshtemoa.
4:18 And his wife Jehudijah bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heberthe father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these arethe sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.
4:19 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, the fatherof Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
4:20 And the sons of Shimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, andTilon.And the sons of Ishi were, Zoheth, and Benzoheth.
4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah,and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house ofthem that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea, 
4:22 And Jokim,and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion inMoab, and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things.
4:23 These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plants andhedges: there they dwelt with the king for his work.
4:24 The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, andShaul: 
4:25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
4:26 And the sons of Mishma; Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimeihis son.
4:27 And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters: but his brethrenhad not many children, neither did all their family multiply, like tothe children of Judah.
4:28 And they dwelt at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual, 
4:29 And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad, 
4:30 And at Bethuel, and atHormah, and at Ziklag, 
4:31 And at Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusim, andat Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reignof David.
4:32 And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, andAshan, five cities: 
4:33 And all their villages that were round aboutthe same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and theirgenealogy.
4:34 And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah, 
4:35 And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son ofAsiel, 
4:36 And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah,and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah, 
4:37 And Ziza the son of Shiphi,the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son ofShemaiah; 
4:38 These mentioned by their names were princes in theirfamilies: and the house of their fathers increased greatly.
4:39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east sideof the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
4:40 And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, andquiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old.
4:41 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king ofJudah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were foundthere, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in theirrooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks.
4:42 And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men,went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah,and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
4:43 And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, anddwelt there unto this day.
5:1 Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was thefirstborn; but forasmuch as he defiled his father's bed, hisbirthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: andthe genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.
5:2 For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chiefruler; but the birthright was Joseph's:) 
5:3 The sons, I say, ofReuben the firstborn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, andCarmi.
5:4 The sons of Joel; Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
5:5 Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son, 
5:6 Beerah his son,whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he wasprince of the Reubenites.
5:7 And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of theirgenerations was reckoned, were the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah, 
5:8 And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dweltin Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon: 
5:9 And eastward he inhabitedunto the entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates:because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.
5:10 And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, whofell by their hand: and they dwelt in their tents throughout all theeast land of Gilead.
5:11 And the children of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land ofBashan unto Salcah: 
5:12 Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, andJaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
5:13 And their brethren of the house of their fathers were, Michael,and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber,seven.
5:14 These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son ofJaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai,the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz; 
5:15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, the sonof Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.
5:16 And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in allthe suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders.
5:17 All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham kingof Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.
5:18 The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and half the tribe ofManasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and toshoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four and forty thousand sevenhundred and threescore, that went out to the war.
5:19 And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish,and Nodab.
5:20 And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites weredelivered into their hand, and all that were with them: for they criedto God in the battle, and he was intreated of them; because they puttheir trust in him.
5:21 And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand,and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses twothousand, and of men an hundred thousand.
5:22 For there fell down many slain, because the war was of God. Andthey dwelt in their steads until the captivity.
5:23 And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land:they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and unto mountHermon.
5:24 And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, evenEpher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah,and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, and heads of the houseof their fathers.
5:25 And they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and wenta whoring after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyedbefore them.
5:26 And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king ofAssyria, and the spirit of Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria, and hecarried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the halftribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara,and to the river Gozan, unto this day.
6:1 The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
6:2 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
6:3 And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. The sonsalso of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
6:4 Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua, 
6:5 And Abishuabegat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi, 
6:6 And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, andZerahiah begat Meraioth, 
6:7 Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begatAhitub, 
6:8 And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz, 
6:9 AndAhimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan, 
6:10 And Johananbegat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest's office in thetemple that Solomon built in Jerusalem:) 
6:11 And Azariah begatAmariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
6:12 And Ahitub begat Zadok, andZadok begat Shallum, 
6:13 And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begatAzariah, 
6:14 And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak,
6:15 And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carried awayJudah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
6:16 The sons of Levi; Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
6:17 And these be the names of the sons of Gershom; Libni, and Shimei.
6:18 And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, andUzziel.
6:19 The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are the familiesof the Levites according to their fathers.
6:20 Of Gershom; Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son, 
6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.
6:22 The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir hisson, 
6:23 Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
6:25 And the sons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth.
6:26 As for Elkanah: the sons of Elkanah; Zophai his son, and Nahathhis son, 
6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
6:28 And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah.
6:29 The sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzahis son, 
6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
6:31 And these are they whom David set over the service of song in thehouse of the LORD, after that the ark had rest.
6:32 And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacleof the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house ofthe LORD in Jerusalem: and then they waited on their office accordingto their order.
6:33 And these are they that waited with their children. Of the sonsof the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son ofShemuel, 
6:34 The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son ofEliel, the son of Toah, 
6:35 The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, theson of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 
6:36 The son of Elkanah, the son ofJoel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 
6:37 The son ofTahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 
6:38 The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son ofIsrael.
6:39 And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaphthe son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea, 
6:40 The son of Michael, theson of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah, 
6:41 The son of Ethni, the sonof Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 
6:42 The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah,the son of Shimei, 
6:43 The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the sonof Levi.
6:44 And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the left hand:Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 
6:45 Theson of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 
6:46 The sonof Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer, 
6:47 The son of Mahli,the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
6:48 Their brethren also the Levites were appointed unto all manner ofservice of the tabernacle of the house of God.
6:49 But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burntoffering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all thework of the place most holy, and to make an atonement for Israel,according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
6:50 And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas hisson, Abishua his son, 
6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah hisson, 
6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
6:54 Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles intheir coasts, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites:for theirs was the lot.
6:55 And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbsthereof round about it.
6:56 But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gaveto Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
6:57 And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely,Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with her suburbs, and Jattir,and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs, 
6:58 And Hilen with her suburbs,Debir with her suburbs, 
6:59 And Ashan with her suburbs, andBethshemesh with her suburbs: 
6:60 And out of the tribe of Benjamin;Geba with her suburbs, and Alemeth with her suburbs, and Anathoth withher suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteencities.
6:61 And unto the sons of Kohath, which were left of the family ofthat tribe, were cities given out of the half tribe, namely, out ofthe half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.
6:62 And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families out of thetribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribeof Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteencities.
6:63 Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout theirfamilies, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, andout of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
6:64 And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities withtheir suburbs.
6:65 And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah,and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribeof the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by theirnames.
6:66 And the residue of the families of the sons of Kohath had citiesof their coasts out of the tribe of Ephraim.
6:67 And they gave unto them, of the cities of refuge, Shechem inmount Ephraim with her suburbs; they gave also Gezer with her suburbs,
6:68 And Jokmeam with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs,
6:69 And Aijalon with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon with her suburbs:
6:70 And out of the half tribe of Manasseh; Aner with her suburbs, andBileam with her suburbs, for the family of the remnant of the sons ofKohath.
6:71 Unto the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the halftribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, and Ashtarothwith her suburbs: 
6:72 And out of the tribe of Issachar; Kedesh withher suburbs, Daberath with her suburbs, 
6:73 And Ramoth with hersuburbs, and Anem with her suburbs: 
6:74 And out of the tribe ofAsher; Mashal with her suburbs, and Abdon with her suburbs, 
6:75 AndHukok with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbs: 
6:76 And out ofthe tribe of Naphtali; Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, and Hammonwith her suburbs, and Kirjathaim with her suburbs.
6:77 Unto the rest of the children of Merari were given out of thetribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with her suburbs, Tabor with her suburbs:
6:78 And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on the east side ofJordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in thewilderness with her suburbs, and Jahzah with her suburbs, 
6:79 Kedemoth also with her suburbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs: 
6:80 And out of the tribe of Gad; Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs, andMahanaim with her suburbs, 
6:81 And Heshbon with her suburbs, andJazer with her suburbs.
7:1 Now the sons of Issachar were, Tola, and Puah, Jashub, andShimrom, four.
7:2 And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai,and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father's house, to wit, ofTola: they were valiant men of might in their generations; whosenumber was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and sixhundred.
7:3 And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael,and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.
7:4 And with them, by their generations, after the house of theirfathers, were bands of soldiers for war, six and thirty thousand men:for they had many wives and sons.
7:5 And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiantmen of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies fourscore and seventhousand.
7:6 The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
7:7 And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth,and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men ofvalour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousandand thirty and four.
7:8 And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, andElioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, andAlameth. All these are the sons of Becher.
7:9 And the number of them, after their genealogy by theirgenerations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men ofvalour, was twenty thousand and two hundred.
7:10 The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush,and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, andAhishahar.
7:11 All these the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers,mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundredsoldiers, fit to go out for war and battle.
7:12 Shuppim also, and Huppim, the children of Ir, and Hushim, thesons of Aher.
7:13 The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum,the sons of Bilhah.
7:14 The sons of Manasseh; Ashriel, whom she bare: (but his concubinethe Aramitess bare Machir the father of Gilead: 
7:15 And Machir tookto wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name wasMaachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehadhad daughters.
7:16 And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called hisname Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sonswere Ulam and Rakem.
7:17 And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, theson of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
7:18 And his sister Hammoleketh bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
7:19 And the sons of Shemidah were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, andAniam.
7:20 And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahathhis son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son, 
7:21 And Zabad hisson, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gaththat were born in that land slew, because they came down to take awaytheir cattle.
7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren cameto comfort him.
7:23 And when he went in to his wife, she conceived, and bare a son,and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.
7:24 (And his daughter was Sherah, who built Bethhoron the nether, andthe upper, and Uzzensherah.)  
7:25 And Rephah was his son, alsoResheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son.
7:26 Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son.
7:27 Non his son, Jehoshuah his son.
7:28 And their possessions and habitations were, Bethel and the townsthereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the townsthereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the townsthereof: 
7:29 And by the borders of the children of Manasseh,Bethshean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns,Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son ofIsrael.
7:30 The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, andSerah their sister.
7:31 And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father ofBirzavith.
7:32 And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua theirsister.
7:33 And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. Theseare the children of Japhlet.
7:34 And the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
7:35 And the sons of his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh,and Amal.
7:36 The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, andImrah, 
7:37 Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, andBeera.
7:38 And the sons of Jether; Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.
7:39 And the sons of Ulla; Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.
7:40 All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father'shouse, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And thenumber throughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war andto battle was twenty and six thousand men.
8:1 Now Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, andAharah the third, 
8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
8:3 And the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud, 
8:4 AndAbishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah, 
8:5 And Gera, and Shephuphan, andHuram.
8:6 And these are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of the fathersof the inhabitants of Geba, and they removed them to Manahath: 
8:7 AndNaaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he removed them, and begat Uzza, andAhihud.
8:8 And Shaharaim begat children in the country of Moab, after he hadsent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.
8:9 And he begat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, andMalcham, 
8:10 And Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons,heads of the fathers.
8:11 And of Hushim he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.
8:12 The sons of Elpaal; Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono,and Lod, with the towns thereof: 
8:13 Beriah also, and Shema, who wereheads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove away theinhabitants of Gath: 
8:14 And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth, 
8:15 AndZebadiah, and Arad, and Ader, 
8:16 And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha,the sons of Beriah; 
8:17 And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, andHeber, 
8:18 Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;
8:19 And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi, 
8:20 And Elienai, and Zilthai,and Eliel, 
8:21 And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons ofShimhi; 
8:22 And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel, 
8:23 And Abdon, andZichri, and Hanan, 
8:24 And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah, 
8:25 And Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak; 
8:26 And Shamsherai,and Shehariah, and Athaliah, 
8:27 And Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri,the sons of Jeroham.
8:28 These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chief men.These dwelt in Jerusalem.
8:29 And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; whose wife's name wasMaachah: 
8:30 And his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, andBaal, and Nadab, 
8:31 And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.
8:32 And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these also dwelt with theirbrethren in Jerusalem, over against them.
8:33 And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan,and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
8:34 And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat Micah.
8:35 And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, andAhaz.
8:36 And Ahaz begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, andAzmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza, 
8:37 And Moza begat Binea:Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son: 
8:38 And Azel hadsix sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, andSheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
8:39 And the sons of Eshek his brother were, Ulam his firstborn,Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
8:40 And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers, and hadmany sons, and sons' sons, an hundred and fifty. All these are of thesons of Benjamin.
9:1 So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and, behold, they werewritten in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah, who were carriedaway to Babylon for their transgression.
9:2 Now the first inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in theircities were, the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the Nethinims.
9:3 And in Jerusalem dwelt of the children of Judah, and of thechildren of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Manasseh;
9:4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, theson of Bani, of the children of Pharez the son of Judah.
9:5 And of the Shilonites; Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
9:6 And of the sons of Zerah; Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundredand ninety.
9:7 And of the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam, the sonof Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah, 
9:8 And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham,and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son ofShephathiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah; 
9:9 And theirbrethren, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty andsix. All these men were chief of the fathers in the house of theirfathers.
9:10 And of the priests; Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin, 
9:11 AndAzariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok,the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;
9:12 And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son ofMalchijah, and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the sonof Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; 
9:13 Andtheir brethren, heads of the house of their fathers, a thousand andseven hundred and threescore; very able men for the work of theservice of the house of God.
9:14 And of the Levites; Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son ofAzrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; 
9:15 AndBakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the sonof Zichri, the son of Asaph; 
9:16 And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, theson of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, theson of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.
9:17 And the porters were, Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman,and their brethren: Shallum was the chief; 
9:18 Who hitherto waited inthe king's gate eastward: they were porters in the companies of thechildren of Levi.
9:19 And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son ofKorah, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korahites,were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of thetabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the LORD, werekeepers of the entry.
9:20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in timepast, and the LORD was with him.
9:21 And Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door ofthe tabernacle of the congregation.
9:22 All these which were chosen to be porters in the gates were twohundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in theirvillages, whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their setoffice.
9:23 So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of thehouse of the LORD, namely, the house of the tabernacle, by wards.
9:24 In four quarters were the porters, toward the east, west, north,and south.
9:25 And their brethren, which were in their villages, were to comeafter seven days from time to time with them.
9:26 For these Levites, the four chief porters, were in their setoffice, and were over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God.
9:27 And they lodged round about the house of God, because the chargewas upon them, and the opening thereof every morning pertained tothem.
9:28 And certain of them had the charge of the ministering vessels,that they should bring them in and out by tale.
9:29 Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels, and allthe instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine,and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.
9:30 And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of thespices.
9:31 And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn ofShallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that weremade in the pans.
9:32 And other of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, wereover the shewbread, to prepare it every sabbath.
9:33 And these are the singers, chief of the fathers of the Levites,who remaining in the chambers were free: for they were employed inthat work day and night.
9:34 These chief fathers of the Levites were chief throughout theirgenerations; these dwelt at Jerusalem.
9:35 And in Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jehiel, whose wife'sname was Maachah: 
9:36 And his firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, andKish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab.
9:37 And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
9:38 And Mikloth begat Shimeam. And they also dwelt with theirbrethren at Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
9:39 And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan,and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
9:40 And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal begat Micah.
9:41 And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, andAhaz.
9:42 And Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, andZimri; and Zimri begat Moza; 
9:43 And Moza begat Binea; and Rephaiahhis son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
9:44 And Azel had six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru,and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these were the sonsof Azel.
10:1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israelfled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
10:2 And the Philistines followed hard after Saul, and after his sons;and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, thesons of Saul.
10:3 And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him,and he was wounded of the archers.
10:4 Then said Saul to his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust methrough therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But hisarmourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a sword,and fell upon it.
10:5 And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he felllikewise on the sword, and died.
10:6 So Saul died, and his three sons, and all his house diedtogether.
10:7 And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw thatthey fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, then they forsooktheir cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
10:8 And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came tostrip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mountGilboa.
10:9 And when they had stripped him, they took his head, and hisarmour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, tocarry tidings unto their idols, and to the people.
10:10 And they put his armour in the house of their gods, and fastenedhis head in the temple of Dagon.
10:11 And when all Jabeshgilead heard all that the Philistines haddone to Saul, 
10:12 They arose, all the valiant men, and took away thebody of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh,and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
10:13 So Saul died for his transgression which he committed againstthe LORD, even against the word of the LORD, which he kept not, andalso for asking counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to enquireof it; 
10:14 And enquired not of the LORD: therefore he slew him, andturned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.
11:1 Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.
11:2 And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, thou wast hethat leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God saidunto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be rulerover my people Israel.
11:3 Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron;and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; andthey anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of theLORD by Samuel.
11:4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; wherethe Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land.
11:5 And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not comehither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the cityof David.
11:6 And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall bechief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and waschief.
11:7 And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the cityof David.
11:8 And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about:and Joab repaired the rest of the city.
11:9 So David waxed greater and greater: for the LORD of hosts waswith him.
11:10 These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, whostrengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and with all Israel,to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
11:11 And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had;Jashobeam, an Hachmonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up hisspear against three hundred slain by him at one time.
11:12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who wasone of the three mighties.
11:13 He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines weregathered together to battle, where was a parcel of ground full ofbarley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.
11:14 And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, anddelivered it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by agreat deliverance.
11:15 Now three of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David,into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines encamped inthe valley of Rephaim.
11:16 And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines' garrisonwas then at Bethlehem.
11:17 And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink ofthe water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!  
11:18 Andthe three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew waterout of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, andbrought it to David: but David would not drink of it, but poured itout to the LORD.
11:19 And said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this thing:shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives injeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it.Therefore he would not drink it.These things did these three mightiest.
11:20 And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: forlifting up his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had aname among the three.
11:21 Of the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he wastheir captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.
11:22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man ofKabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionlike men of Moab:also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.
11:23 And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubitshigh; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam; andhe went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of theEgyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.
11:24 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the nameamong the three mighties.
11:25 Behold, he was honourable among the thirty, but attained not tothe first three: and David set him over his guard.
11:26 Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother ofJoab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
11:27 Shammoth theHarorite, Helez the Pelonite, 
11:28 Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,Abiezer the Antothite, 
11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai theAhohite, 
11:30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah theNetophathite, 
11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertainedto the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 
11:32 Hurai ofthe brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
11:33 Azmaveth theBaharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
11:34 The sons of Hashem theGizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite, 
11:35 Ahiam the sonof Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, 
11:36 Hepher theMecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
11:37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naaraithe son of Ezbai, 
11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son ofHaggeri, 
11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, thearmourbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Garebthe Ithrite, 
11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, 
11:42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, andthirty with him, 
11:43 Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat theMithnite, 
11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons ofHothan the Aroerite, 
11:45 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha hisbrother, the Tizite, 
11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, andJoshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 
11:47 Eliel,and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.
12:1 Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, while he yetkept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish: and they wereamong the mighty men, helpers of the war.
12:2 They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand andthe left in hurling stones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even ofSaul's brethren of Benjamin.
12:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah theGibeathite; and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah,and Jehu the Antothite.
12:4 And Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, andover the thirty; and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabadthe Gederathite, 
12:5 Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, andShemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite, 
12:6 Elkanah, and Jesiah, andAzareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites, 
12:7 And Joelah, andZebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
12:8 And of the Gadites there separated themselves unto David into thehold to the wilderness men of might, and men of war fit for thebattle, that could handle shield and buckler, whose faces were likethe faces of lions, and were as swift as the roes upon the mountains;
12:9 Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 
12:11 Attai the sixth,Eliel the seventh, 
12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.
12:14 These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host: one of theleast was over an hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.
12:15 These are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when ithad overflown all his banks; and they put to flight all them of thevalleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.
12:16 And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the holdunto David.
12:17 And David went out to meet them, and answered and said untothem, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall beknit unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, seeingthere is no wrong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look thereon,and rebuke it.
12:18 Then the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains,and he said, Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse:peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thine helpers; for thy Godhelpeth thee.Then David received them, and made them captains of the band.
12:19 And there fell some of Manasseh to David, when he came with thePhilistines against Saul to battle: but they helped them not: for thelords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, Hewill fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.
12:20 As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, andJozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, andZilthai, captains of the thousands that were of Manasseh.
12:21 And they helped David against the band of the rovers: for theywere all mighty men of valour, and were captains in the host.
12:22 For at that time day by day there came to David to help him,until it was a great host, like the host of God.
12:23 And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed tothe war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul tohim, according to the word of the LORD.
12:24 The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were sixthousand and eight hundred, ready armed to the war.
12:25 Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valour for the war,seven thousand and one hundred.
12:26 Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.
12:27 And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him werethree thousand and seven hundred; 
12:28 And Zadok, a young man mightyof valour, and of his father's house twenty and two captains.
12:29 And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, threethousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept the ward ofthe house of Saul.
12:30 And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eighthundred, mighty men of valour, famous throughout the house of theirfathers.
12:31 And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, which wereexpressed by name, to come and make David king.
12:32 And of the children of Issachar, which were men that hadunderstanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do; the headsof them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at theircommandment.
12:33 Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, withall instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: theywere not of double heart.
12:34 And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them with shieldand spear thirty and seven thousand.
12:35 And of the Danites expert in war twenty and eight thousand andsix hundred.
12:36 And of Asher, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, fortythousand.
12:37 And on the other side of Jordan, of the Reubenites, and theGadites, and of the half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner ofinstruments of war for the battle, an hundred and twenty thousand.
12:38 All these men of war, that could keep rank, came with a perfectheart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the restalso of Israel were of one heart to make David king.
12:39 And there they were with David three days, eating and drinking:for their brethren had prepared for them.
12:40 Moreover they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar andZebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and onmules, and on oxen, and meat, meal, cakes of figs, and bunches ofraisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep abundantly: for therewas joy in Israel.
13:1 And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds,and with every leader.
13:2 And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seemgood unto you, and that it be of the LORD our God, let us send abroadunto our brethren every where, that are left in all the land ofIsrael, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are intheir cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:
13:3 And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we enquirednot at it in the days of Saul.
13:4 And all the congregation said that they would do so: for thething was right in the eyes of all the people.
13:5 So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor of Egypt evenunto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God fromKirjathjearim.
13:6 And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, toKirjathjearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark ofGod the LORD, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name iscalled on it.
13:7 And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house ofAbinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drave the cart.
13:8 And David and all Israel played before God with all their might,and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and withtimbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.
13:9 And when they came unto the threshingfloor of Chidon, Uzza putforth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.
13:10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smotehim, because he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.
13:11 And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breachupon Uzza: wherefore that place is called Perezuzza to this day.
13:12 And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bringthe ark of God home to me?  
13:13 So David brought not the ark home tohimself to the city of David, but carried it aside into the house ofObededom the Gittite.
13:14 And the ark of God remained with the family of Obededom in hishouse three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obededom, andall that he had.
14:1 Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber ofcedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.
14:2 And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king overIsrael, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his peopleIsrael.
14:3 And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sonsand daughters.
14:4 Now these are the names of his children which he had inJerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 
14:5 And Ibhar,and Elishua, and Elpalet, 
14:6 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
14:7 And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.
14:8 And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king overall Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heardof it, and went out against them.
14:9 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley ofRephaim.
14:10 And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against thePhilistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORDsaid unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.
14:11 So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. ThenDavid said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like thebreaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that placeBaalperazim.
14:12 And when they had left their gods there, David gave acommandment, and they were burned with fire.
14:13 And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in thevalley.
14:14 Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Gonot up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them overagainst the mulberry trees.
14:15 And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in thetops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: forGod is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.
14:16 David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote thehost of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.
14:17 And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORDbrought the fear of him upon all nations.
15:1 And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared aplace for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.
15:2 Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but theLevites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and tominister unto him for ever.
15:3 And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring upthe ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.
15:4 And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites: 
15:5 Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundredand twenty: 
15:6 Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and hisbrethren two hundred and twenty: 
15:7 Of the sons of Gershom; Joel thechief and his brethren an hundred and thirty: 
15:8 Of the sons ofElizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred: 
15:9 Ofthe sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore: 
15:10 Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren anhundred and twelve.
15:11 And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for theLevites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, andAmminadab, 
15:12 And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathersof the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, thatye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place thatI have prepared for it.
15:13 For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made abreach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.
15:14 So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring upthe ark of the LORD God of Israel.
15:15 And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon theirshoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to theword of the LORD.
15:16 And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint theirbrethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries andharps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.
15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of hisbrethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari theirbrethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 
15:18 And with them theirbrethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, andShemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,the porters.
15:19 So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to soundwith cymbals of brass; 
15:20 And Zechariah, and Aziel, andShemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, andBenaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth; 
15:21 And Mattithiah, andElipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, withharps on the Sheminith to excel.
15:22 And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructedabout the song, because he was skilful.
15:23 And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.
15:24 And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, andZechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with thetrumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah weredoorkeepers for the ark.
15:25 So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains overthousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out ofthe house of Obededom with joy.
15:26 And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare theark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks andseven rams.
15:27 And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all theLevites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the masterof the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod oflinen.
15:28 Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORDwith shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, andwith cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.
15:29 And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD cameto the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out ata window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him inher heart.
16:1 So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of thetent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrificesand peace offerings before God.
16:2 And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offeringsand the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of theLORD.
16:3 And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.
16:4 And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before theark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD Godof Israel: 
16:5 Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, andShemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, andObededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made asound with cymbals; 
16:6 Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests withtrumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
16:7 Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank theLORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
16:8 Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known hisdeeds among the people.
16:9 Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrousworks.
16:10 Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice thatseek the LORD.
16:11 Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually.
16:12 Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders,and the judgments of his mouth; 
16:13 O ye seed of Israel his servant,ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.
16:14 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
16:15 Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which hecommanded to a thousand generations; 
16:16 Even of the covenant whichhe made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac; 
16:17 And hathconfirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for aneverlasting covenant, 
16:18 Saying, Unto thee will I give the land ofCanaan, the lot of your inheritance; 
16:19 When ye were but few, evena few, and strangers in it.
16:20 And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdomto another people; 
16:21 He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, hereproved kings for their sakes, 
16:22 Saying, Touch not mine anointed,and do my prophets no harm.
16:23 Sing unto the LORD, all the earth; shew forth from day to dayhis salvation.
16:24 Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works amongall nations.
16:25 For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised: he also is tobe feared above all gods.
16:26 For all the gods of the people are idols: but the LORD made theheavens.
16:27 Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness arein his place.
16:28 Give unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto theLORD glory and strength.
16:29 Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring anoffering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty ofholiness.
16:30 Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable,that it be not moved.
16:31 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let mensay among the nations, The LORD reigneth.
16:32 Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fieldsrejoice, and all that is therein.
16:33 Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of theLORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.
16:34 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercyendureth for ever.
16:35 And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather ustogether, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks tothy holy name, and glory in thy praise.
16:36 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. And all thepeople said, Amen, and praised the LORD.
16:37 So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORDAsaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, asevery day's work required: 
16:38 And Obededom with their brethren,threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah tobe porters: 
16:39 And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests,before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was atGibeon, 
16:40 To offer burnt offerings unto the LORD upon the altar ofthe burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to doaccording to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which hecommanded Israel; 
16:41 And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the restthat were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to theLORD, because his mercy endureth for ever; 
16:42 And with them Hemanand Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make asound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthunwere porters.
16:43 And all the people departed every man to his house: and Davidreturned to bless his house.
17:1 Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David saidto Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the arkof the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.
17:2 Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; forGod is with thee.
17:3 And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came toNathan, saying, 
17:4 Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith theLORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in: 
17:5 For I havenot dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto thisday; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle toanother.
17:6 Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to anyof the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying,Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?  
17:7 Now therefore thusshalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Itook thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thoushouldest be ruler over my people Israel: 
17:8 And I have been withthee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thineenemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name ofthe great men that are in the earth.
17:9 Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plantthem, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as atthe beginning, 
17:10 And since the time that I commanded judges to beover my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.
17:11 And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thoumust go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed afterthee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.
17:12 He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne forever.
17:13 I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will nottake my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was beforethee: 
17:14 But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom forever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.
17:15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision,so did Nathan speak unto David.
17:16 And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Whoam I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought mehitherto?  
17:17 And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;for thou hast also spoken of thy servant's house for a great while tocome, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of highdegree, O LORD God.
17:18 What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant?for thou knowest thy servant.
17:19 O LORD, for thy servant's sake, and according to thine ownheart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all thesegreat things.
17:20 O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God besidethee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
17:21 And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whomGod went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name ofgreatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thypeople whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?  
17:22 For thy peopleIsrael didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,becamest their God.
17:23 Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spokenconcerning thy servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as thou hast said.
17:24 Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified forever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God toIsrael: and let the house of David thy servant be established beforethee.
17:25 For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt buildhim an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to praybefore thee.
17:26 And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodnessunto thy servant: 
17:27 Now therefore let it please thee to bless thehouse of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thoublessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.
18:1 Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of thePhilistines.
18:2 And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David's servants, andbrought gifts.
18:3 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he wentto stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
18:4 And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousandhorsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also houghed all thechariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots.
18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king ofZobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
18:6 Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians becameDavid's servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved Davidwhithersoever he went.
18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants ofHadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
18:8 Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer,brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea,and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
18:9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all thehost of Hadarezer king of Zobah; 
18:10 He sent Hadoram his son to kingDavid, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because hehad fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had warwith Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver andbrass.
18:11 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silverand the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, andfrom Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines,and from Amalek.
18:12 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in thevalley of salt eighteen thousand.
18:13 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites becameDavid's servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.
18:14 So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment andjustice among all his people.
18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphatthe son of Ahilud, recorder.
18:16 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar,were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 
18:17 And Benaiah the son ofJehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons ofDavid were chief about the king.
19:1 Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of thechildren of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.
19:2 And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son ofNahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sentmessengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants ofDavid came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comforthim.
19:3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkestthou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comfortersunto thee?  are not his servants come unto thee for to search, and tooverthrow, and to spy out the land?  
19:4 Wherefore Hanun took David'sservants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midsthard by their buttocks, and sent them away.
19:5 Then there went certain, and told David how the men were served.And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed. And theking said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and thenreturn.
19:6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselvesodious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousandtalents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out ofMesopotamia, and out of Syriamaachah, and out of Zobah.
19:7 So they hired thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king ofMaachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medeba. And thechildren of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, andcame to battle.
19:8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of themighty men.
19:9 And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in arraybefore the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were bythemselves in the field.
19:10 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before andbehind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put them inarray against the Syrians.
19:11 And the rest of the people he delivered unto the hand of Abishaihis brother, and they set themselves in array against the children ofAmmon.
19:12 And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thoushalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,then I will help thee.
19:13 Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly forour people, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do thatwhich is good in his sight.
19:14 So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before theSyrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.
19:15 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into thecity. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.
19:16 And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse beforeIsrael, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that werebeyond the river: and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezerwent before them.
19:17 And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passedover Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array againstthem. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians,they fought with him.
19:18 But the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of theSyrians seven thousand men which fought in chariots, and fortythousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.
19:19 And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to theworse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became hisservants: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon anymore.
20:1 And it came to pass, that after the year was expired, at the timethat kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army, andwasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besiegedRabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, anddestroyed it.
20:2 And David took the crown of their king from off his head, andfound it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones init; and it was set upon David's head: and he brought also exceedingmuch spoil out of the city.
20:3 And he brought out the people that were in it, and cut them withsaws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt Davidwith all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all thepeople returned to Jerusalem.
20:4 And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezerwith the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slewSippai, that was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.
20:5 And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the sonof Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spearstaff was like a weaver's beam.
20:6 And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of greatstature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on eachhand, and six on each foot and he also was the son of the giant.
20:7 But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David'sbrother slew him.
20:8 These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the handof David, and by the hand of his servants.
21:1 And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to numberIsrael.
21:2 And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go,number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan; and bring the number of themto me, that I may know it.
21:3 And Joab answered, The LORD make his people an hundred times somany more as they be: but, my lord the king, are they not all mylord's servants?  why then doth my lord require this thing? why willhe be a cause of trespass to Israel?  
21:4 Nevertheless the king'sword prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and wentthroughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
21:5 And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. Andall they of Israel were a thousand thousand and an hundred thousandmen that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and tenthousand men that drew sword.
21:6 But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them: for the king'sword was abominable to Joab.
21:7 And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smoteIsrael.
21:8 And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I havedone this thing: but now, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thyservant; for I have done very foolishly.
21:9 And the LORD spake unto Gad, David's seer, saying, 
21:10 Go andtell David, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things:choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.
21:11 So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD,Choose thee 
21:12 Either three years' famine; or three months to bedestroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemiesovertaketh thee; or else three days the sword of the LORD, even thepestilence, in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroyingthroughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself whatword I shall bring again to him that sent me.
21:13 And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall nowinto the hand of the LORD; for very great are his mercies: but let menot fall into the hand of man.
21:14 So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell ofIsrael seventy thousand men.
21:15 And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as hewas destroying, the LORD beheld, and he repented him of the evil, andsaid to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand.And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan theJebusite.
21:16 And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the LORDstand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in hishand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders ofIsrael, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.
21:17 And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the peopleto be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed;but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I praythee, O LORD my God, be on me, and on my father's house; but not onthy people, that they should be plagued.
21:18 Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David, thatDavid should go up, and set up an altar unto the LORD in thethreshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.
21:19 And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in thename of the LORD.
21:20 And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons withhim hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.
21:21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and wentout of the threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with his face tothe ground.
21:22 Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of thisthreshingfloor, that I may build an altar therein unto the LORD: thoushalt grant it me for the full price: that the plague may be stayedfrom the people.
21:23 And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord theking do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen alsofor burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and thewheat for the meat offering; I give it all.
21:24 And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it forthe full price: for I will not take that which is thine for the LORD,nor offer burnt offerings without cost.
21:25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of goldby weight.
21:26 And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burntofferings and peace offerings, and called upon the LORD; and heanswered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.
21:27 And the LORD commanded the angel; and he put up his sword againinto the sheath thereof.
21:28 At that time when David saw that the LORD had answered him inthe threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
21:29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in thewilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering, were at that seasonin the high place at Gibeon.
21:30 But David could not go before it to enquire of God: for he wasafraid because of the sword of the angel of the LORD.
22:1 Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this isthe altar of the burnt offering for Israel.
22:2 And David commanded to gather together the strangers that were inthe land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to buildthe house of God.
22:3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doorsof the gates, and for the joinings; and brass in abundance withoutweight; 
22:4 Also cedar trees in abundance: for the Zidonians and theyof Tyre brought much cedar wood to David.
22:5 And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the housethat is to be builded for the LORD must be exceeding magnifical, offame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore now makepreparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death.
22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build anhouse for the LORD God of Israel.
22:7 And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mindto build an house unto the name of the LORD my God: 
22:8 But the wordof the LORD came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, andhast made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto my name,because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.
22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest;and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about: for hisname shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israelin his days.
22:10 He shall build an house for my name; and he shall be my son, andI will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdomover Israel for ever.
22:11 Now, my son, the LORD be with thee; and prosper thou, and buildthe house of the LORD thy God, as he hath said of thee.
22:12 Only the LORD give thee wisdom and understanding, and give theecharge concerning Israel, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORDthy God.
22:13 Then shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfil thestatutes and judgments which the LORD charged Moses with concerningIsrael: be strong, and of good courage; dread not, nor be dismayed.
22:14 Now, behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of theLORD an hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand thousandtalents of silver; and of brass and iron without weight; for it is inabundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest addthereto.
22:15 Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers andworkers of stone and timber, and all manner of cunning men for everymanner of work.
22:16 Of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there isno number. Arise therefore, and be doing, and the LORD be with thee.
22:17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomonhis son, saying, 
22:18 Is not the LORD your God with you? and hath henot given you rest on every side? for he hath given the inhabitants ofthe land into mine hand; and the land is subdued before the LORD, andbefore his people.
22:19 Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God;arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of the LORD God, to bringthe ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of God, intothe house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.
23:1 So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his sonking over Israel.
23:2 And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with thepriests and the Levites.
23:3 Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years andupward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty andeight thousand.
23:4 Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the workof the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:
23:5 Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praisedthe LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praisetherewith.
23:6 And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi,namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
23:7 Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.
23:8 The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel,three.
23:9 The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three.These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.
23:10 And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, andBeriah.These four were the sons of Shimei.
23:11 And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush andBeriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,according to their father's house.
23:12 The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
23:13 The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons forever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and tobless in his name for ever.
23:14 Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of thetribe of Levi.
23:15 The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.
23:16 Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.
23:17 And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezerhad none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
23:18 Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.
23:19 Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
23:20 Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.
23:21 The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;Eleazar, and Kish.
23:22 And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and theirbrethren the sons of Kish took them.
23:23 The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
23:24 These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of namesby their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of theLORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.
23:25 For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto hispeople, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever: 
23:26 And also untothe Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vesselsof it for the service thereof.
23:27 For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered fromtwenty years old and above: 
23:28 Because their office was to wait onthe sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in thecourts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things,and the work of the service of the house of God; 
23:29 Both for theshewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for theunleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for thatwhich is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; 
23:30 And tostand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise ateven: 
23:31 And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in thesabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number,according to the order commanded unto them, continually before theLORD: 
23:32 And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle ofthe congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge ofthe sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of theLORD.
24:1 Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons ofAaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had nochildren: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office.
24:3 And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar,and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices intheir service.
24:4 And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar thanof the sons of Ithamar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons ofEleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers,and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of theirfathers.
24:5 Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for thegovernors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were ofthe sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.
24:6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, andAhimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers ofthe priests and Levites: one principal household being taken forEleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.
24:7 Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
24:8 The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 
24:9 The fifth toMalchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
24:10 The seventh to Hakkoz, theeighth to Abijah, 
24:11 The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah,
24:12 The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 
24:13 Thethirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
24:14 The fifteenthto Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 
24:15 The seventeenth to Hezir, theeighteenth to Aphses, 
24:16 The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentiethto Jehezekel, 
24:17 The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two andtwentieth to Gamul, 
24:18 The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the fourand twentieth to Maaziah.
24:19 These were the orderings of them in their service to come intothe house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron theirfather, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.
24:20 And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons ofAmram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.
24:21 Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first wasIsshiah.
24:22 Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.
24:23 And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
24:24 Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.
24:25 The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah;Zechariah.
24:26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah;Beno.
24:27 The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, andIbri.
24:28 Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons.
24:29 Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.
24:30 The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. Thesewere the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers.
24:31 These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons ofAaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, andthe chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even theprincipal fathers over against their younger brethren.
25:1 Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to theservice of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, whoshould prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and thenumber of the workmen according to their service was: 
25:2 Of the sonsof Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons ofAsaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to theorder of the king.
25:3 Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, andJeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of theirfather Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and topraise the LORD.
25:4 Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel,and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer,Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth: 
25:5 All these were thesons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up thehorn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
25:6 All these were under the hands of their father for song in thehouse of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for theservice of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph,Jeduthun, and Heman.
25:7 So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructedin the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundredfourscore and eight.
25:8 And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as thegreat, the teacher as the scholar.
25:9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second toGedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve: 
25:10 The thirdto Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:11 Thefourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:12 Thefifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:13 The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, weretwelve: 
25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren,were twelve: 
25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and hisbrethren, were twelve: 
25:17 The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, andhis brethren, were twelve: 
25:18 The eleventh to Azareel, he, hissons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:19 The twelfth to Hashabiah,he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:20 The thirteenth toShubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:21 Thefourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, weretwelve: 
25:23 The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and hisbrethren, were twelve: 
25:24 The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, hissons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:25 The eighteenth to Hanani,he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:26 The nineteenth toMallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:27 Thetwentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:28 The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren,were twelve: 
25:29 The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons,and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:30 The three and twentieth toMahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
25:31 The fourand twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, weretwelve.
26:1 Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites wasMeshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
26:2 And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn,Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
26:3 Elamthe fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
26:4 Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn,Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, andNethaneel the fifth.
26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: forGod blessed him.
26:6 Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughoutthe house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.
26:7 The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad,whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.
26:8 All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and theirbrethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore andtwo of Obededom.
26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.
26:10 Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri thechief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made himthe chief;) 
26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariahthe fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.
26:12 Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among thechief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the houseof the LORD.
26:13 And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according tothe house of their fathers, for every gate.
26:14 And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah hisson, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came outnorthward.
26:15 To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.
26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gateShallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.
26:17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward foura day, and toward Asuppim two and two.
26:18 At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.
26:19 These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore,and among the sons of Merari.
26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the houseof God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.
26:21 As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the GershoniteLaadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.
26:22 The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which wereover the treasures of the house of the LORD.
26:23 Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and theUzzielites: 
26:24 And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses,was ruler of the treasures.
26:25 And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah hisson, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.
26:26 Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures ofthe dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, thecaptains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host,had dedicated.
26:27 Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintainthe house of the LORD.
26:28 And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, andAbner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; andwhosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith,and of his brethren.
26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outwardbusiness over Israel, for officers and judges.
26:30 And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men ofvalour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them ofIsrael on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD,and in the service of the king.
26:31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among theHebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In thefortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and therewere found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.
26:32 And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and sevenhundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over theReubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for everymatter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.
27:1 Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chieffathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officersthat served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in andwent out month by month throughout all the months of the year, ofevery course were twenty and four thousand.
27:2 Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the sonof Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
27:3 Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of thehost for the first month.
27:4 And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, andof his course was Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise weretwenty and four thousand.
27:5 The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah theson of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course were twenty andfour thousand.
27:6 This is that Benaiah, who was mighty among the thirty, and abovethe thirty: and in his course was Ammizabad his son.
27:7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother ofJoab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twentyand four thousand.
27:8 The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite:and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
27:9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkeshthe Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.
27:10 The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez thePelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twentyand four thousand.
27:11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai theHushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and fourthousand.
27:12 The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer theAnetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and fourthousand.
27:13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai theNetophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and fourthousand.
27:14 The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah thePirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twentyand four thousand.
27:15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai theNetophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and fourthousand.
27:16 Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of theReubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri: of the Simeonites,Shephatiah the son of Maachah: 
27:17 Of the Levites, Hashabiah the sonof Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok: 
27:18 Of Judah, Elihu, one of thebrethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael: 
27:19 OfZebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son ofAzriel: 
27:20 Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah:of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 
27:21 Of thehalf tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: ofBenjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner: 
27:22 Of Dan, Azareel the son ofJeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.
27:23 But David took not the number of them from twenty years old andunder: because the LORD had said he would increase Israel like to thestars of the heavens.
27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not,because there fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the numberput in the account of the chronicles of king David.
27:25 And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: andover the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in thevillages, and in the castles, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah: 
27:26 And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the groundwas Ezri the son of Chelub: 
27:27 And over the vineyards was Shimeithe Ramathite: over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellarswas Zabdi the Shiphmite: 
27:28 And over the olive trees and thesycomore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite:and over the cellars of oil was Joash: 
27:29 And over the herds thatfed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that werein the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai: 
27:30 Over the camelsalso was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah theMeronothite: 
27:31 And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. Allthese were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.
27:32 Also Jonathan David's uncle was a counsellor, a wise man, and ascribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons: 
27:33 And Ahithophel was the king's counsellor: and Hushai the Archite wasthe king's companion: 
27:34 And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the sonof Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king's army was Joab.
28:1 And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of thetribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the kingby course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over thehundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession ofthe king, and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men,and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.
28:2 Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, mybrethren, and my people: As for me, I had in mine heart to build anhouse of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for thefootstool of our God, and had made ready for the building: 
28:3 ButGod said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name, becausethou hast been a man of war, and hast shed blood.
28:4 Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house ofmy father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah tobe the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; andamong the sons of my father he liked me to make me king over allIsrael: 
28:5 And of all my sons, (for the LORD hath given me manysons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of thekingdom of the LORD over Israel.
28:6 And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house andmy courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be hisfather.
28:7 Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constantto do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.
28:8 Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of theLORD, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all thecommandments of the LORD your God: that ye may possess this good land,and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you for ever.
28:9 And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, andserve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the LORDsearcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of thethoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thouforsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.
28:10 Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an housefor the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.
28:11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, andof the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upperchambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the placeof the mercy seat, 
28:12 And the pattern of all that he had by thespirit, of the courts of the house of the LORD, and of all thechambers round about, of the treasuries of the house of God, and ofthe treasuries of the dedicated things: 
28:13 Also for the courses ofthe priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service ofthe house of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the houseof the LORD.
28:14 He gave of gold by weight for things of gold, for allinstruments of all manner of service; silver also for all instrumentsof silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:
28:15 Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for theirlamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lampsthereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for thecandlestick, and also for the lamps thereof, according to the use ofevery candlestick.
28:16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread, forevery table; and likewise silver for the tables of silver: 
28:17 Alsopure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for thegolden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason; and likewisesilver by weight for every bason of silver: 
28:18 And for the altar ofincense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of thechariot of the cherubims, that spread out their wings, and covered theark of the covenant of the LORD.
28:19 All this, said David, the LORD made me understand in writing byhis hand upon me, even all the works of this pattern.
28:20 And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of goodcourage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, evenmy God, will be with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee,until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house ofthe LORD.
28:21 And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, eventhey shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God: andthere shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship every willingskilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and all thepeople will be wholly at thy commandment.
29:1 Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation,Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender,and the work is great: for the palace is not for man, but for the LORDGod.
29:2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God thegold for things to be made of gold, and the silver for things ofsilver, and the brass for things of brass, the iron for things ofiron, and wood for things of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set,glistering stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of preciousstones, and marble stones in abundance.
29:3 Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God,I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have givento the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared forthe holy house.
29:4 Even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, andseven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of thehouses withal: 
29:5 The gold for things of gold, and the silver forthings of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the handsof artificers. And who then is willing to consecrate his service thisday unto the LORD?  
29:6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes ofthe tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds,with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly, 
29:7 And gavefor the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents andten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brasseighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.
29:8 And they with whom precious stones were found gave them to thetreasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel theGershonite.
29:9 Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly,because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: andDavid the king also rejoiced with great joy.
29:10 Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all the congregation:and David said, Blessed be thou, LORD God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
29:11 Thine, O LORD is the greatness, and the power, and the glory,and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and inthe earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exaltedas head above all.
29:12 Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all;and in thine hand is power and might; and in thine hand it is to makegreat, and to give strength unto all.
29:13 Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy gloriousname.
29:14 But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able tooffer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, andof thine own have we given thee.
29:15 For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were allour fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is noneabiding.
29:16 O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to buildthee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is allthine own.
29:17 I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hastpleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart Ihave willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joythy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee.
29:18 O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keepthis for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thypeople, and prepare their heart unto thee: 
29:19 And give unto Solomonmy son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, andthy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, forthe which I have made provision.
29:20 And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD yourGod.And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, andbowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king.
29:21 And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered burntofferings unto the LORD, on the morrow after that day, even a thousandbullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drinkofferings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel: 
29:22 And dideat and drink before the LORD on that day with great gladness. Andthey made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointedhim unto the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.
29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead ofDavid his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
29:24 And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sonslikewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.
29:25 And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of allIsrael, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been onany king before him in Israel.
29:26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
29:27 And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; sevenyears reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he inJerusalem.
29:28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour:and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.
29:29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they arewritten in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan theprophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, 
29:30 With all his reign andhis might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and overall the kingdoms of the countries.