1:1 Then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.
1:2 And Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber thatwas in Samaria, and was sick: and he sent messengers, and said untothem, Go, enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron whether I shallrecover of this disease.
1:3 But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise, goup to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them,Is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that ye go to enquireof Baalzebub the god of Ekron?  
1:4 Now therefore thus saith the LORD,Thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, butshalt surely die. And Elijah departed.
1:5 And when the messengers turned back unto him, he said unto them,Why are ye now turned back?  
1:6 And they said unto him, There came aman up to meet us, and said unto us, Go, turn again unto the king thatsent you, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Is it not becausethere is not a God in Israel, that thou sendest to enquire ofBaalzebub the god of Ekron? therefore thou shalt not come down fromthat bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.
1:7 And he said unto them, What manner of man was he which came up tomeet you, and told you these words?  
1:8 And they answered him, He wasan hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. Andhe said, It is Elijah the Tishbite.
1:9 Then the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty. Andhe went up to him: and, behold, he sat on the top of an hill. And hespake unto him, Thou man of God, the king hath said, Come down.
1:10 And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I be aman of God, then let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee andthy fifty.And there came down fire from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.
1:11 Again also he sent unto him another captain of fifty with hisfifty.And he answered and said unto him, O man of God, thus hath the kingsaid, Come down quickly.
1:12 And Elijah answered and said unto them, If I be a man of God, letfire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty. And thefire of God came down from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.
1:13 And he sent again a captain of the third fifty with his fifty.And the third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his kneesbefore Elijah, and besought him, and said unto him, O man of God, Ipray thee, let my life, and the life of these fifty thy servants, beprecious in thy sight.
1:14 Behold, there came fire down from heaven, and burnt up the twocaptains of the former fifties with their fifties: therefore let mylife now be precious in thy sight.
1:15 And the angel of the LORD said unto Elijah, Go down with him: benot afraid of him. And he arose, and went down with him unto the king.
1:16 And he said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Forasmuch as thou hastsent messengers to enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron, is it notbecause there is no God in Israel to enquire of his word? thereforethou shalt not come down off that bed on which thou art gone up, butshalt surely die.
1:17 So he died according to the word of the LORD which Elijah hadspoken.And Jehoram reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the sonof Jehoshaphat king of Judah; because he had no son.
1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they notwritten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?  
2:1 Andit came to pass, when the LORD would take up Elijah into heaven by awhirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
2:2 And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORDhath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the LORD liveth,and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down toBethel.
2:3 And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth toElisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take awaythy master from thy head to day? And he said, Yea, I know it; hold yeyour peace.
2:4 And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for theLORD hath sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the LORD liveth, and asthy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.
2:5 And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha,and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thymaster from thy head to day? And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold yeyour peace.
2:6 And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here; for the LORDhath sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the LORD liveth, and as thysoul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they two went on.
2:7 And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood to viewafar off: and they two stood by Jordan.
2:8 And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote thewaters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they twowent over on dry ground.
2:9 And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah saidunto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away fromthee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spiritbe upon me.
2:10 And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing: nevertheless, if thousee me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee; but ifnot, it shall not be so.
2:11 And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that,behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, andparted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind intoheaven.
2:12 And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, thechariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more:and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them in two pieces.
2:13 He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and wentback, and stood by the bank of Jordan; 
2:14 And he took the mantle ofElijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where isthe LORD God of Elijah? and when he also had smitten the waters, theyparted hither and thither: and Elisha went over.
2:15 And when the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jerichosaw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And theycame to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
2:16 And they said unto him, Behold now, there be with thy servantsfifty strong men; let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master: lestperadventure the Spirit of the LORD hath taken him up, and cast himupon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall notsend.
2:17 And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. Theysent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days, but found himnot.
2:18 And when they came again to him, (for he tarried at Jericho,) hesaid unto them, Did I not say unto you, Go not?  
2:19 And the men ofthe city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of thiscity is pleasant, as my lord seeth: but the water is naught, and theground barren.
2:20 And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And theybrought it to him.
2:21 And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast thesalt in there, and said, Thus saith the LORD, I have healed thesewaters; there shall not be from thence any more death or barren land.
2:22 So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the sayingof Elisha which he spake.
2:23 And he went up from thence unto Bethel: and as he was going up bythe way, there came forth little children out of the city, and mockedhim, and said unto him, Go up, thou bald head; go up, thou bald head.
2:24 And he turned back, and looked on them, and cursed them in thename of the LORD. And there came forth two she bears out of the wood,and tare forty and two children of them.
2:25 And he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence hereturned to Samaria.
3:1 Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samariathe eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelveyears.
3:2 And he wrought evil in the sight of the LORD; but not like hisfather, and like his mother: for he put away the image of Baal thathis father had made.
3:3 Nevertheless he cleaved unto the sins of Jeroboam the son ofNebat, which made Israel to sin; he departed not therefrom.
3:4 And Mesha king of Moab was a sheepmaster, and rendered unto theking of Israel an hundred thousand lambs, and an hundred thousandrams, with the wool.
3:5 But it came to pass, when Ahab was dead, that the king of Moabrebelled against the king of Israel.
3:6 And king Jehoram went out of Samaria the same time, and numberedall Israel.
3:7 And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, Theking of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou go with me againstMoab to battle? And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, my peopleas thy people, and my horses as thy horses.
3:8 And he said, Which way shall we go up? And he answered, The waythrough the wilderness of Edom.
3:9 So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king ofEdom: and they fetched a compass of seven days' journey: and there wasno water for the host, and for the cattle that followed them.
3:10 And the king of Israel said, Alas! that the LORD hath calledthese three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab!
3:11 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD,that we may enquire of the LORD by him? And one of the king ofIsrael's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha the son ofShaphat, which poured water on the hands of Elijah.
3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is with him. So theking of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.
3:13 And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do withthee?  get thee to the prophets of thy father, and to the prophets ofthy mother.And the king of Israel said unto him, Nay: for the LORD hath calledthese three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab.
3:14 And Elisha said, As the LORD of hosts liveth, before whom Istand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphatthe king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee.
3:15 But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when theminstrel played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him.
3:16 And he said, Thus saith the LORD, Make this valley full ofditches.
3:17 For thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not see wind, neither shall yesee rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, that ye maydrink, both ye, and your cattle, and your beasts.
3:18 And this is but a light thing in the sight of the LORD: he willdeliver the Moabites also into your hand.
3:19 And ye shall smite every fenced city, and every choice city, andshall fell every good tree, and stop all wells of water, and mar everygood piece of land with stones.
3:20 And it came to pass in the morning, when the meat offering wasoffered, that, behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and thecountry was filled with water.
3:21 And when all the Moabites heard that the kings were come up tofight against them, they gathered all that were able to put on armour,and upward, and stood in the border.
3:22 And they rose up early in the morning, and the sun shone upon thewater, and the Moabites saw the water on the other side as red asblood: 
3:23 And they said, This is blood: the kings are surely slain,and they have smitten one another: now therefore, Moab, to the spoil.
3:24 And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose upand smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them: but they wentforward smiting the Moabites, even in their country.
3:25 And they beat down the cities, and on every good piece of landcast every man his stone, and filled it; and they stopped all thewells of water, and felled all the good trees: only in Kirharasethleft they the stones thereof; howbeit the slingers went about it, andsmote it.
3:26 And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was too sore forhim, he took with him seven hundred men that drew swords, to breakthrough even unto the king of Edom: but they could not.
3:27 Then he took his eldest son that should have reigned in hisstead, and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall. And therewas great indignation against Israel: and they departed from him, andreturned to their own land.
4:1 Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of theprophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant my husband is dead; and thouknowest that thy servant did fear the LORD: and the creditor is cometo take unto him my two sons to be bondmen.
4:2 And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? tell me, whathast thou in the house? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house, save a pot of oil.
4:3 Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thyneighbours, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.
4:4 And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee andupon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thoushalt set aside that which is full.
4:5 So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon hersons, who brought the vessels to her; and she poured out.
4:6 And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she saidunto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There isnot a vessel more. And the oil stayed.
4:7 Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell theoil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest.
4:8 And it fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem, where was agreat woman; and she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was, thatas oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread.
4:9 And she said unto her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this isan holy man of God, which passeth by us continually.
4:10 Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall; and letus set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and acandlestick: and it shall be, when he cometh to us, that he shall turnin thither.
4:11 And it fell on a day, that he came thither, and he turned intothe chamber, and lay there.
4:12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And whenhe had called her, she stood before him.
4:13 And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast beencareful for us with all this care; what is to be done for thee?wouldest thou be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of thehost? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people.
4:14 And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazianswered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old.
4:15 And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood inthe door.
4:16 And he said, About this season, according to the time of life,thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God,do not lie unto thine handmaid.
4:17 And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season thatElisha had said unto her, according to the time of life.
4:18 And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went outto his father to the reapers.
4:19 And he said unto his father, My head, my head. And he said to alad, Carry him to his mother.
4:20 And when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he saton her knees till noon, and then died.
4:21 And she went up, and laid him on the bed of the man of God, andshut the door upon him, and went out.
4:22 And she called unto her husband, and said, Send me, I pray thee,one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I may run to the manof God, and come again.
4:23 And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him to day? it is neithernew moon, nor sabbath. And she said, It shall be well.
4:24 Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and goforward; slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee.
4:25 So she went and came unto the man of God to mount Carmel. And itcame to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said toGehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite: 
4:26 Run now, Ipray thee, to meet her, and say unto her, Is it well with thee? is itwell with thy husband? is it well with the child? And she answered, Itis well: 
4:27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, shecaught him by the feet: but Gehazi came near to thrust her away. Andthe man of God said, Let her alone; for her soul is vexed within her:and the LORD hath hid it from me, and hath not told me.
4:28 Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? did I not say, Donot deceive me?  
4:29 Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up thy loins, andtake my staff in thine hand, and go thy way: if thou meet any man,salute him not; and if any salute thee, answer him not again: and laymy staff upon the face of the child.
4:30 And the mother of the child said, As the LORD liveth, and as thysoul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and followed her.
4:31 And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon theface of the child; but there was neither voice, nor hearing. Whereforehe went again to meet him, and told him, saying, The child is notawaked.
4:32 And when Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child wasdead, and laid upon his bed.
4:33 He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, andprayed unto the LORD.
4:34 And he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth uponhis mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands:and stretched himself upon the child; and the flesh of the child waxedwarm.
4:35 Then he returned, and walked in the house to and fro; and wentup, and stretched himself upon him: and the child sneezed seven times,and the child opened his eyes.
4:36 And he called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So hecalled her. And when she was come in unto him, he said, Take up thyson.
4:37 Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to theground, and took up her son, and went out.
4:38 And Elisha came again to Gilgal: and there was a dearth in theland; and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him: and hesaid unto his servant, Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage forthe sons of the prophets.
4:39 And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wildvine, and gathered thereof wild gourds his lap full, and came andshred them into the pot of pottage: for they knew them not.
4:40 So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass, asthey were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O thouman of God, there is death in the pot. And they could not eat thereof.
4:41 But he said, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot; and hesaid, Pour out for the people, that they may eat. And there was noharm in the pot.
4:42 And there came a man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man ofGod bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full earsof corn in the husk thereof. And he said, Give unto the people, thatthey may eat.
4:43 And his servitor said, What, should I set this before an hundredmen?  He said again, Give the people, that they may eat: for thussaith the LORD, They shall eat, and shall leave thereof.
4:44 So he set it before them, and they did eat, and left thereof,according to the word of the LORD.
5:1 Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a greatman with his master, and honourable, because by him the LORD had givendeliverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man in valour, but he wasa leper.
5:2 And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought awaycaptive out of the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited onNaaman's wife.
5:3 And she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were with theprophet that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy.
5:4 And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said themaid that is of the land of Israel.
5:5 And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letterunto the king of Israel. And he departed, and took with him tentalents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes ofraiment.
5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now whenthis letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman myservant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy.
5:7 And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter,that he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to makealive, that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of hisleprosy? wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh aquarrel against me.
5:8 And it was so, when Elisha the man of God had heard that the kingof Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying,Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? let him come now to me, and heshall know that there is a prophet in Israel.
5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood atthe door of the house of Elisha.
5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash inJordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thoushalt be clean.
5:11 But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought,He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of theLORD his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover theleper.
5:12 Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than allthe waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So heturned and went away in a rage.
5:13 And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, Myfather, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thounot have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash,and be clean?  
5:14 Then went he down, and dipped himself seven timesin Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God: and his fleshcame again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.
5:15 And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, andcame, and stood before him: and he said, Behold, now I know that thereis no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee,take a blessing of thy servant.
5:16 But he said, As the LORD liveth, before whom I stand, I willreceive none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused.
5:17 And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I pray thee, be given tothy servant two mules' burden of earth? for thy servant willhenceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods,but unto the LORD.
5:18 In this thing the LORD pardon thy servant, that when my mastergoeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on myhand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I bow down myselfin the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon thy servant in this thing.
5:19 And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him alittle way.
5:20 But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold,my master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at hishands that which he brought: but, as the LORD liveth, I will run afterhim, and take somewhat of him.
5:21 So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him runningafter him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Isall well?  
5:22 And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me,saying, Behold, even now there be come to me from mount Ephraim twoyoung men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pray thee, atalent of silver, and two changes of garments.
5:23 And Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him,and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes ofgarments, and laid them upon two of his servants; and they bare thembefore him.
5:24 And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand, andbestowed them in the house: and he let the men go, and they departed.
5:25 But he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha said untohim, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went nowhither.
5:26 And he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the manturned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receivemoney, and to receive garments, and oliveyards, and vineyards, andsheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants?  
5:27 The leprosytherefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.
6:1 And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, theplace where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.
6:2 Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man abeam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. And heanswered, Go ye.
6:3 And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants.And he answered, I will go.
6:4 So he went with them. And when they came to Jordan, they cut downwood.
6:5 But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water:and he cried, and said, Alas, master! for it was borrowed.
6:6 And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he shewed him theplace.And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron didswim.
6:7 Therefore said he, Take it up to thee. And he put out his hand,and took it.
6:8 Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, and took counselwith his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.
6:9 And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Bewarethat thou pass not such a place; for thither the Syrians are comedown.
6:10 And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of Godtold him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nortwice.
6:11 Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled forthis thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them, Will yenot shew me which of us is for the king of Israel?  
6:12 And one ofhis servants said, None, my lord, O king: but Elisha, the prophet thatis in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakestin thy bedchamber.
6:13 And he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetchhim.And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.
6:14 Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host:and they came by night, and compassed the city about.
6:15 And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and goneforth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses andchariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall wedo?  
6:16 And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are morethan they that be with them.
6:17 And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes,that he may see. And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man; and hesaw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fireround about Elisha.
6:18 And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the LORD, andsaid, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smotethem with blindness according to the word of Elisha.
6:19 And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is thisthe city: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. Buthe led them to Samaria.
6:20 And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, thatElisha said, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. Andthe LORD opened their eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were inthe midst of Samaria.
6:21 And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, Myfather, shall I smite them? shall I smite them?  
6:22 And he answered,Thou shalt not smite them: wouldest thou smite those whom thou hasttaken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? set bread and waterbefore them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.
6:23 And he prepared great provision for them: and when they had eatenand drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So thebands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel.
6:24 And it came to pass after this, that Benhadad king of Syriagathered all his host, and went up, and besieged Samaria.
6:25 And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behold, theybesieged it, until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces ofsilver, and the fourth part of a cab of dove's dung for five pieces ofsilver.
6:26 And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, therecried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.
6:27 And he said, If the LORD do not help thee, whence shall I helpthee?  out of the barnfloor, or out of the winepress?  
6:28 And theking said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This womansaid unto me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to day, and we willeat my son to morrow.
6:29 So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on thenext day, Give thy son, that we may eat him: and she hath hid her son.
6:30 And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman,that he rent his clothes; and he passed by upon the wall, and thepeople looked, and, behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh.
6:31 Then he said, God do so and more also to me, if the head ofElisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.
6:32 But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him; and theking sent a man from before him: but ere the messenger came to him, hesaid to the elders, See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent totake away mine head? look, when the messenger cometh, shut the door,and hold him fast at the door: is not the sound of his master's feetbehind him?  
6:33 And while he yet talked with them, behold, themessenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of theLORD; what should I wait for the LORD any longer?  
7:1 Then Elishasaid, Hear ye the word of the LORD; Thus saith the LORD, To morrowabout this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel,and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.
7:2 Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God,and said, Behold, if the LORD would make windows in heaven, might thisthing be?  And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, butshalt not eat thereof.
7:3 And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate:and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die?  
7:4 If wesay, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, andwe shall die there: and if we sit still here, we die also. Nowtherefore come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if theysave us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die.
7:5 And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of theSyrians: and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp ofSyria, behold, there was no man there.
7:6 For the LORD had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise ofchariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host: andthey said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against usthe kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to comeupon us.
7:7 Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left theirtents, and their horses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, andfled for their life.
7:8 And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, theywent into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver,and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and came again, andentered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hidit.
7:9 Then they said one to another, We do not well: this day is a dayof good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry till the morninglight, some mischief will come upon us: now therefore come, that wemay go and tell the king's household.
7:10 So they came and called unto the porter of the city: and theytold them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold,there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, andasses tied, and the tents as they were.
7:11 And he called the porters; and they told it to the king's housewithin.
7:12 And the king arose in the night, and said unto his servants, Iwill now shew you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that webe hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselvesin the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall catchthem alive, and get into the city.
7:13 And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I praythee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city,(behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it:behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelitesthat are consumed:) and let us send and see.
7:14 They took therefore two chariot horses; and the king sent afterthe host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.
7:15 And they went after them unto Jordan: and, lo, all the way wasfull of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in theirhaste. And the messengers returned, and told the king.
7:16 And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. Soa measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures ofbarley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.
7:17 And the king appointed the lord on whose hand he leaned to havethe charge of the gate: and the people trode upon him in the gate, andhe died, as the man of God had said, who spake when the king came downto him.
7:18 And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king,saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fineflour for a shekel, shall be to morrow about this time in the gate ofSamaria: 
7:19 And that lord answered the man of God, and said, Now,behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, might such a thingbe? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shaltnot eat thereof.
7:20 And so it fell out unto him: for the people trode upon him in thegate, and he died.
8:1 Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored tolife, saying, Arise, and go thou and thine household, and sojournwheresoever thou canst sojourn: for the LORD hath called for a famine;and it shall also come upon the land seven years.
8:2 And the woman arose, and did after the saying of the man of God:and she went with her household, and sojourned in the land of thePhilistines seven years.
8:3 And it came to pass at the seven years' end, that the womanreturned out of the land of the Philistines: and she went forth to cryunto the king for her house and for her land.
8:4 And the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God,saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hathdone.
8:5 And it came to pass, as he was telling the king how he hadrestored a dead body to life, that, behold, the woman, whose son hehad restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for herland. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this isher son, whom Elisha restored to life.
8:6 And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the kingappointed unto her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that washers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left theland, even until now.
8:7 And Elisha came to Damascus; and Benhadad the king of Syria wassick; and it was told him, saying, The man of God is come hither.
8:8 And the king said unto Hazael, Take a present in thine hand, andgo, meet the man of God, and enquire of the LORD by him, saying, ShallI recover of this disease?  
8:9 So Hazael went to meet him, and took apresent with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels'burden, and came and stood before him, and said, Thy son Benhadad kingof Syria hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recover of thisdisease?  
8:10 And Elisha said unto him, Go, say unto him, Thou mayestcertainly recover: howbeit the LORD hath shewed me that he shallsurely die.
8:11 And he settled his countenance stedfastly, until he was ashamed:and the man of God wept.
8:12 And Hazael said, Why weepeth my lord? And he answered, Because Iknow the evil that thou wilt do unto the children of Israel: theirstrong holds wilt thou set on fire, and their young men wilt thou slaywith the sword, and wilt dash their children, and rip up their womenwith child.
8:13 And Hazael said, But what, is thy servant a dog, that he shoulddo this great thing? And Elisha answered, The LORD hath shewed me thatthou shalt be king over Syria.
8:14 So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said tohim, What said Elisha to thee? And he answered, He told me that thoushouldest surely recover.
8:15 And it came to pass on the morrow, that he took a thick cloth,and dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died:and Hazael reigned in his stead.
8:16 And in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel,Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Je hoshaphatking of Judah began to reign.
8:17 Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign; and hereigned eight years in Jerusalem.
8:18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the houseof Ahab: for the daughter of Ahab was his wife: and he did evil in thesight of the LORD.
8:19 Yet the LORD would not destroy Judah for David his servant'ssake, as he promised him to give him alway a light, and to hischildren.
8:20 In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and madea king over themselves.
8:21 So Joram went over to Zair, and all the chariots with him: and herose by night, and smote the Edomites which compassed him about, andthe captains of the chariots: and the people fled into their tents.
8:22 Yet Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day.Then Libnah revolted at the same time.
8:23 And the rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, are theynot written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  
8:24 And Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers inthe city of David: and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.
8:25 In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel didAhaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah begin to reign.
8:26 Two and twenty years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; andhe reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah,the daughter of Omri king of Israel.
8:27 And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did evil inthe sight of the LORD, as did the house of Ahab: for he was the son inlaw of the house of Ahab.
8:28 And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to the war against Hazaelking of Syria in Ramothgilead; and the Syrians wounded Joram.
8:29 And king Joram went back to be healed in Jezreel of the woundswhich the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought againstHazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judahwent down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he wassick.
9:1 And Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets,and said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this box of oil inthine hand, and go to Ramothgilead: 
9:2 And when thou comest thither,look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and goin, and make him arise up from among his brethren, and carry him to aninner chamber; 
9:3 Then take the box of oil, and pour it on his head,and say, Thus saith the LORD, I have anointed thee king over Israel.Then open the door, and flee, and tarry not.
9:4 So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went toRamothgilead.
9:5 And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting;and he said, I have an errand to thee, O captain. And Jehu said, Untowhich of all us? And he said, To thee, O captain.
9:6 And he arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil onhis head, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I haveanointed thee king over the people of the LORD, even over Israel.
9:7 And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I mayavenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all theservants of the LORD, at the hand of Jezebel.
9:8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish: and I will cut off fromAhab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up andleft in Israel: 
9:9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the houseof Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son ofAhijah: 
9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel,and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door, and fled.
9:11 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one saidunto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And hesaid unto them, Ye know the man, and his communication.
9:12 And they said, It is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus andthus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I have anointed theeking over Israel.
9:13 Then they hasted, and took every man his garment, and put itunder him on the top of the stairs, and blew with trumpets, saying,Jehu is king.
9:14 So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspiredagainst Joram. (Now Joram had kept Ramothgilead, he and all Israel,because of Hazael king of Syria.
9:15 But king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the woundswhich the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king ofSyria.)  And Jehu said, If it be your minds, then let none go forthnor escape out of the city to go to tell it in Jezreel.
9:16 So Jehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram laythere.And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see Joram.
9:17 And there stood a watchman on the tower in Jezreel, and he spiedthe company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. And Joramsaid, Take an horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is itpeace?  
9:18 So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said,Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What hast thou to dowith peace? turn thee behind me. And the watchman told, saying, Themessenger came to them, but he cometh not again.
9:19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, which came to them, andsaid, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What hastthou to do with peace? turn thee behind me.
9:20 And the watchman told, saying, He came even unto them, and comethnot again: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son ofNimshi; for he driveth furiously.
9:21 And Joram said, Make ready. And his chariot was made ready. AndJoram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in hischariot, and they went out against Jehu, and met him in the portion ofNaboth the Jezreelite.
9:22 And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, Is itpeace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long as the whoredoms ofthy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?  
9:23 And Joramturned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, OAhaziah.
9:24 And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote Jehorambetween his arms, and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunkdown in his chariot.
9:25 Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him inthe portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite: for remember howthat, when I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, the LORDlaid this burden upon him; 
9:26 Surely I have seen yesterday the bloodof Naboth, and the blood of his sons, saith the LORD; and I willrequite thee in this plat, saith the LORD. Now therefore take and casthim into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD.
9:27 But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the wayof the garden house. And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite himalso in the chariot. And they did so at the going up to Gur, which isby Ibleam.And he fled to Megiddo, and died there.
9:28 And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, andburied him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David.
9:29 And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziahto reign over Judah.
9:30 And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and shepainted her face, and tired her head, and looked out at a window.
9:31 And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Had Zimri peace,who slew his master?  
9:32 And he lifted up his face to the window,and said, Who is on my side?  who? And there looked out to him two orthree eunuchs.
9:33 And he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down: and some ofher blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses: and he trodeher under foot.
9:34 And when he was come in, he did eat and drink, and said, Go, seenow this cursed woman, and bury her: for she is a king's daughter.
9:35 And they went to bury her: but they found no more of her than theskull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.
9:36 Wherefore they came again, and told him. And he said, This is theword of the LORD, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite,saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel:
9:37 And the carcase of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of thefield in the portion of Jezreel; so that they shall not say, This isJezebel.
10:1 And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, andsent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and tothem that brought up Ahab's children, saying, 
10:2 Now as soon as thisletter cometh to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, andthere are with you chariots and horses, a fenced city also, andarmour; 
10:3 Look even out the best and meetest of your master's sons,and set him on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house.
10:4 But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, two kingsstood not before him: how then shall we stand?  
10:5 And he that wasover the house, and he that was over the city, the elders also, andthe bringers up of the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are thyservants, and will do all that thou shalt bid us; we will not make anyking: do thou that which is good in thine eyes.
10:6 Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If ye bemine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of themen your master's sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to morrow thistime. Now the king's sons, being seventy persons, were with the greatmen of the city, which brought them up.
10:7 And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they tookthe king's sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads inbaskets, and sent him them to Jezreel.
10:8 And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They havebrought the heads of the king's sons. And he said, Lay ye them in twoheaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.
10:9 And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood,and said to all the people, Ye be righteous: behold, I conspiredagainst my master, and slew him: but who slew all these?  
10:10 Knownow that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of the word of theLORD, which the LORD spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the LORDhath done that which he spake by his servant Elijah.
10:11 So Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel,and all his great men, and his kinsfolks, and his priests, until heleft him none remaining.
10:12 And he arose and departed, and came to Samaria. And as he was atthe shearing house in the way, 
10:13 Jehu met with the brethren ofAhaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We arethe brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of theking and the children of the queen.
10:14 And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and slewthem at the pit of the shearing house, even two and forty men; neitherleft he any of them.
10:15 And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the sonof Rechab coming to meet him: and he saluted him, and said to him, Isthine heart right, as my heart is with thy heart? And Jehonadabanswered, It is. If it be, give me thine hand. And he gave him hishand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.
10:16 And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So theymade him ride in his chariot.
10:17 And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Ahabin Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying of theLORD, which he spake to Elijah.
10:18 And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them,Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.
10:19 Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all hisservants, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a greatsacrifice to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall notlive. But Jehu did it in subtilty, to the intent that he might destroythe worshippers of Baal.
10:20 And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal. And theyproclaimed it.
10:21 And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers ofBaal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And theycame into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from oneend to another.
10:22 And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forthvestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forthvestments.
10:23 And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the houseof Baal, and said unto the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look thatthere be here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but theworshippers of Baal only.
10:24 And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings,Jehu appointed fourscore men without, and said, If any of the men whomI have brought into your hands escape, he that letteth him go, hislife shall be for the life of him.
10:25 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offeringthe burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains,Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote them withthe edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out,and went to the city of the house of Baal.
10:26 And they brought forth the images out of the house of Baal, andburned them.
10:27 And they brake down the image of Baal, and brake down the houseof Baal, and made it a draught house unto this day.
10:28 Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
10:29 Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who madeIsrael to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit, the goldencalves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dan.
10:30 And the LORD said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well inexecuting that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto thehouse of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children ofthe fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.
10:31 But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the LORD God ofIsrael with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins ofJeroboam, which made Israel to sin.
10:32 In those days the LORD began to cut Israel short: and Hazaelsmote them in all the coasts of Israel; 
10:33 From Jordan eastward,all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and theManassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead andBashan.
10:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and allhis might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of thekings of Israel?  
10:35 And Jehu slept with his fathers: and theyburied him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.
10:36 And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twentyand eight years.
11:1 And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son wasdead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
11:2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah,took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king'ssons which were slain; and they hid him, even him and his nurse, inthe bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.
11:3 And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. AndAthaliah did reign over the land.
11:4 And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers overhundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to himinto the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and took anoath of them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king's son.
11:5 And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shalldo; A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even bekeepers of the watch of the king's house; 
11:6 And a third part shallbe at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard:so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down.
11:7 And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even theyshall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.
11:8 And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with hisweapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let him beslain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he cometh in.
11:9 And the captains over the hundreds did according to all thingsthat Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his menthat were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out onthe sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.
11:10 And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give kingDavid's spears and shields, that were in the temple of the LORD.
11:11 And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand,round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the leftcorner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple.
11:12 And he brought forth the king's son, and put the crown upon him,and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him;and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king.
11:13 And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of thepeople, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.
11:14 And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as themanner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and allthe people of the land rejoiced, and blew with trumpets: and Athaliahrent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.
11:15 But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds,the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth withoutthe ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For thepriest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the LORD.
11:16 And they laid hands on her; and she went by the way by the whichthe horses came into the king's house: and there was she slain.
11:17 And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king andthe people, that they should be the LORD's people; between the kingalso and the people.
11:18 And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, andbrake it down; his altars and his images brake they in piecesthoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. Andthe priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD.
11:19 And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captains, and theguard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the kingfrom the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of theguard to the king's house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.
11:20 And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was inquiet: and they slew Athaliah with the sword beside the king's house.
11:21 Seven years old was Jehoash when he began to reign.
12:1 In the seventh year of Jehu Jehoash began to reign; and fortyyears reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zibiah ofBeersheba.
12:2 And Jehoash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD allhis days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
12:3 But the high places were not taken away: the people stillsacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
12:4 And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the dedicatedthings that is brought into the house of the LORD, even the money ofevery one that passeth the account, the money that every man is setat, and all the money that cometh into any man's heart to bring intothe house of the LORD, 
12:5 Let the priests take it to them, every manof his acquaintance: and let them repair the breaches of the house,wheresoever any breach shall be found.
12:6 But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of kingJehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.
12:7 Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the otherpriests, and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of thehouse? now therefore receive no more money of your acquaintance, butdeliver it for the breaches of the house.
12:8 And the priests consented to receive no more money of the people,neither to repair the breaches of the house.
12:9 But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lidof it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one comethinto the house of the LORD: and the priests that kept the door puttherein all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.
12:10 And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in thechest, that the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and theyput up in bags, and told the money that was found in the house of theLORD.
12:11 And they gave the money, being told, into the hands of them thatdid the work, that had the oversight of the house of the LORD: andthey laid it out to the carpenters and builders, that wrought upon thehouse of the LORD, 
12:12 And to masons, and hewers of stone, and tobuy timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the house of theLORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.
12:13 Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls ofsilver, snuffers, basons, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels ofsilver, of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD:
12:14 But they gave that to the workmen, and repaired therewith thehouse of the LORD.
12:15 Moreover they reckoned not with the men, into whose hand theydelivered the money to be bestowed on workmen: for they dealtfaithfully.
12:16 The trespass money and sin money was not brought into the houseof the LORD: it was the priests'.
12:17 Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, andtook it: and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem.
12:18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things thatJehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah,had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that wasfound in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and in the king'shouse, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria: and he went away fromJerusalem.
12:19 And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are theynot written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
12:20 And his servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and slew Joash inthe house of Millo, which goeth down to Silla.
12:21 For Jozachar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son ofShomer, his servants, smote him, and he died; and they buried him withhis fathers in the city of David: and Amaziah his son reigned in hisstead.
13:1 In the three and twentieth year of Joash the son of Ahaziah kingof Judah Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel inSamaria, and reigned seventeen years.
13:2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, andfollowed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which made Israel tosin; he departed not therefrom.
13:3 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and hedelivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into thehand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, all their days.
13:4 And Jehoahaz besought the LORD, and the LORD hearkened unto him:for he saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syriaoppressed them.
13:5 (And the LORD gave Israel a saviour, so that they went out fromunder the hand of the Syrians: and the children of Israel dwelt intheir tents, as beforetime.
13:6 Nevertheless they departed not from the sins of the house ofJeroboam, who made Israel sin, but walked therein: and there remainedthe grove also in Samaria.)  
13:7 Neither did he leave of the peopleto Jehoahaz but fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousandfootmen; for the king of Syria had destroyed them, and had made themlike the dust by threshing.
13:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, andhis might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of thekings of Israel?  
13:9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and theyburied him in Samaria: and Joash his son reigned in his stead.
13:10 In the thirty and seventh year of Joash king of Judah beganJehoash the son of Jehoahaz to reign over Israel in Samaria, andreigned sixteen years.
13:11 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD; hedeparted not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who madeIsrael sin: but he walked therein.
13:12 And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, and hismight wherewith he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they notwritten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?  
13:13 And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne:and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
13:14 Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died. AndJoash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face,and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and thehorsemen thereof.
13:15 And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows. And he took untohim bow and arrows.
13:16 And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow.And he put his hand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king'shands.
13:17 And he said, Open the window eastward. And he opened it. ThenElisha said, Shoot. And he shot. And he said, The arrow of the LORD'sdeliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shaltsmite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them.
13:18 And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said untothe king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice, andstayed.
13:19 And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldesthave smitten five or six times; then hadst thou smitten Syria tillthou hadst consumed it: whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice.
13:20 And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of theMoabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.
13:21 And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold,they spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre ofElisha: and when the man was let down, and touched the bones ofElisha, he revived, and stood up on his feet.
13:22 But Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days ofJehoahaz.
13:23 And the LORD was gracious unto them, and had compassion on them,and had respect unto them, because of his covenant with Abraham,Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he themfrom his presence as yet.
13:24 So Hazael king of Syria died; and Benhadad his son reigned inhis stead.
13:25 And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the hand ofBenhadad the son of Hazael the cities, which he had taken out of thehand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times did Joash beat him,and recovered the cities of Israel.
14:1 In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israelreigned Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah.
14:2 He was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, andreigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasJehoaddan of Jerusalem.
14:3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, yet notlike David his father: he did according to all things as Joash hisfather did.
14:4 Howbeit the high places were not taken away: as yet the peopledid sacrifice and burnt incense on the high places.
14:5 And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in hishand, that he slew his servants which had slain the king his father.
14:6 But the children of the murderers he slew not: according untothat which is written in the book of the law of Moses, wherein theLORD commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for thechildren, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but everyman shall be put to death for his own sin.
14:7 He slew of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and tookSelah by war, and called the name of it Joktheel unto this day.
14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz sonof Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in theface.
14:9 And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah,saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was inLebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passedby a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.
14:10 Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thine heart hath lifted theeup: glory of this, and tarry at home: for why shouldest thou meddle tothy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?
14:11 But Amaziah would not hear. Therefore Jehoash king of Israelwent up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in theface at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.
14:12 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fledevery man to their tents.
14:13 And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the sonof Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and came to Jerusalem,and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto thecorner gate, four hundred cubits.
14:14 And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels thatwere found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of theking's house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.
14:15 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might,and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written inthe book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?  
14:16 And Jehoashslept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings ofIsrael; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.
14:17 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the deathof Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
14:18 And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in thebook of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  
14:19 Now they made aconspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled to Lachish; but theysent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.
14:20 And they brought him on horses: and he was buried at Jerusalemwith his fathers in the city of David.
14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteenyears old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.
14:22 He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the kingslept with his fathers.
14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of JudahJeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria,and reigned forty and one years.
14:24 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: hedeparted not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who madeIsrael to sin.
14:25 He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath untothe sea of the plain, according to the word of the LORD God of Israel,which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittai,the prophet, which was of Gathhepher.
14:26 For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, that it was verybitter: for there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helperfor Israel.
14:27 And the LORD said not that he would blot out the name of Israelfrom under heaven: but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the sonof Joash.
14:28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, andhis might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascus, and Hamath,which belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in the bookof the chronicles of the kings of Israel?  
14:29 And Jeroboam sleptwith his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zachariah his sonreigned in his stead.
15:1 In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel beganAzariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.
15:2 Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reignedtwo and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jecholiahof Jerusalem.
15:3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his father Amaziah had done; 
15:4 Save that thehigh places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incensestill on the high places.
15:5 And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the dayof his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king's sonwas over the house, judging the people of the land.
15:6 And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, arethey not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:7 So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with hisfathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
15:8 In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah didZachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.
15:9 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as hisfathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son ofNebat, who made Israel to sin.
15:10 And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smotehim before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
15:11 And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they are writtenin the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:12 This was the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying,Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth generation.And so it came to pass.
15:13 Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine andthirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month inSamaria.
15:14 For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came toSamaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him,and reigned in his stead.
15:15 And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which hemade, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of thekings of Israel.
15:16 Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and thecoasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, thereforehe smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he rippedup.
15:17 In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah beganMenahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years inSamaria.
15:18 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: hedeparted not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,who made Israel to sin.
15:19 And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahemgave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with himto confirm the kingdom in his hand.
15:20 And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mightymen of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to theking of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed notthere in the land.
15:21 And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, arethey not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
15:22 And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reignedin his stead.
15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the sonof Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned twoyears.
15:24 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: hedeparted not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who madeIsrael to sin.
15:25 But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspiredagainst him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king'shouse, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites:and he killed him, and reigned in his room.
15:26 And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did,behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings ofIsrael.
15:27 In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah theson of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reignedtwenty years.
15:28 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: hedeparted not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who madeIsrael to sin.
15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king ofAssyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh,and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, andcarried them captive to Assyria.
15:30 And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah theson of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in hisstead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
15:31 And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold,they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
15:32 In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israelbegan Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.
15:33 Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and hereigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jerusha,the daughter of Zadok.
15:34 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD: he didaccording to all that his father Uzziah had done.
15:35 Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificedand burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gateof the house of the LORD.
15:36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, arethey not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:37 In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin theking of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.
15:38 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with hisfathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned inhis stead.
16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz the sonof Jotham king of Judah began to reign.
16:2 Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign, and reignedsixteen years in Jerusalem, and did not that which was right in thesight of the LORD his God, like David his father.
16:3 But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and madehis son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of theheathen, whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel.
16:4 And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and onthe hills, and under every green tree.
16:5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israelcame up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but could notovercome him.
16:6 At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, anddrave the Jews from Elath: and the Syrians came to Elath, and dweltthere unto this day.
16:7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglathpileser king of Assyria,saying, I am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of thehand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel,which rise up against me.
16:8 And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house ofthe LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house, and sent it for apresent to the king of Assyria.
16:9 And the king of Assyria hearkened unto him: for the king ofAssyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried the peopleof it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin.
16:10 And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglathpileser king ofAssyria, and saw an altar that was at Damascus: and king Ahaz sent toUrijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it,according to all the workmanship thereof.
16:11 And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that kingAhaz had sent from Damascus: so Urijah the priest made it against kingAhaz came from Damascus.
16:12 And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw thealtar: and the king approached to the altar, and offered thereon.
16:13 And he burnt his burnt offering and his meat offering, andpoured his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peaceofferings, upon the altar.
16:14 And he brought also the brasen altar, which was before the LORD,from the forefront of the house, from between the altar and the houseof the LORD, and put it on the north side of the altar.
16:15 And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon thegreat altar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meatoffering, and the king's burnt sacrifice, and his meat offering, withthe burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their meatoffering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle upon it all theblood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice: andthe brasen altar shall be for me to enquire by.
16:16 Thus did Urijah the priest, according to all that king Ahazcommanded.
16:17 And king Ahaz cut off the borders of the bases, and removed thelaver from off them; and took down the sea from off the brasen oxenthat were under it, and put it upon the pavement of stones.
16:18 And the covert for the sabbath that they had built in the house,and the king's entry without, turned he from the house of the LORD forthe king of Assyria.
16:19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they notwritten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  
16:20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers inthe city of David: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son ofElah to reign in Samaria over Israel nine years.
17:2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but notas the kings of Israel that were before him.
17:3 Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hosheabecame his servant, and gave him presents.
17:4 And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he hadsent messengers to So king of Egypt, and brought no present to theking of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king ofAssyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.
17:5 Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, andwent up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.
17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, andcarried Israel away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah and inHabor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
17:7 For so it was, that the children of Israel had sinned against theLORD their God, which had brought them up out of the land of Egypt,from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared othergods, 
17:8 And walked in the statutes of the heathen, whom the LORDcast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings ofIsrael, which they had made.
17:9 And the children of Israel did secretly those things that werenot right against the LORD their God, and they built them high placesin all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fencedcity.
17:10 And they set them up images and groves in every high hill, andunder every green tree: 
17:11 And there they burnt incense in all thehigh places, as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away beforethem; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger: 
17:12 For they served idols, whereof the LORD had said unto them, Ye shallnot do this thing.
17:13 Yet the LORD testified against Israel, and against Judah, by allthe prophets, and by all the seers, saying, Turn ye from your evilways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all thelaw which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by myservants the prophets.
17:14 Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks,like to the neck of their fathers, that did not believe in the LORDtheir God.
17:15 And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he madewith their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified againstthem; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after theheathen that were round about them, concerning whom the LORD hadcharged them, that they should not do like them.
17:16 And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, andmade them molten images, even two calves, and made a grove, andworshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.
17:17 And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass throughthe fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves todo evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
17:18 Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel, and removed themout of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only.
17:19 Also Judah kept not the commandments of the LORD their God, butwalked in the statutes of Israel which they made.
17:20 And the LORD rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflictedthem, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had castthem out of his sight.
17:21 For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they madeJeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel fromfollowing the LORD, and made them sin a great sin.
17:22 For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboamwhich he did; they departed not from them; 
17:23 Until the LORDremoved Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servantsthe prophets. So was Israel carried away out of their own land toAssyria unto this day.
17:24 And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and fromCuthah, and from Ava, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placedthem in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel: andthey possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.
17:25 And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, thatthey feared not the LORD: therefore the LORD sent lions among them,which slew some of them.
17:26 Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nationswhich thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know notthe manner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions amongthem, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not the manner ofthe God of the land.
17:27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one ofthe priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and dwellthere, and let him teach them the manner of the God of the land.
17:28 Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samariacame and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear theLORD.
17:29 Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in thehouses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nationin their cities wherein they dwelt.
17:30 And the men of Babylon made Succothbenoth, and the men of Cuthmade Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima, 
17:31 And the Avitesmade Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their children infire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.
17:32 So they feared the LORD, and made unto themselves of the lowestof them priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in thehouses of the high places.
17:33 They feared the LORD, and served their own gods, after themanner of the nations whom they carried away from thence.
17:34 Unto this day they do after the former manners: they fear notthe LORD, neither do they after their statutes, or after theirordinances, or after the law and commandment which the LORD commandedthe children of Jacob, whom he named Israel; 
17:35 With whom the LORDhad made a covenant, and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear othergods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice tothem: 
17:36 But the LORD, who brought you up out of the land of Egyptwith great power and a stretched out arm, him shall ye fear, and himshall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.
17:37 And the statutes, and the ordinances, and the law, and thecommandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do forevermore; and ye shall not fear other gods.
17:38 And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget;neither shall ye fear other gods.
17:39 But the LORD your God ye shall fear; and he shall deliver youout of the hand of all your enemies.
17:40 Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their formermanner.
17:41 So these nations feared the LORD, and served their gravenimages, both their children, and their children's children: as didtheir fathers, so do they unto this day.
18:1 Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah kingof Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign.
18:2 Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign; and hereigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also wasAbi, the daughter of Zachariah.
18:3 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,according to all that David his father did.
18:4 He removed the high places, and brake the images, and cut downthe groves, and brake in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses hadmade: for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense toit: and he called it Nehushtan.
18:5 He trusted in the LORD God of Israel; so that after him was nonelike him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him.
18:6 For he clave to the LORD, and departed not from following him,but kept his commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses.
18:7 And the LORD was with him; and he prospered whithersoever he wentforth: and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served himnot.
18:8 He smote the Philistines, even unto Gaza, and the bordersthereof, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.
18:9 And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, whichwas the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, thatShalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria, and besieged it.
18:10 And at the end of three years they took it: even in the sixthyear of Hezekiah, that is in the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel,Samaria was taken.
18:11 And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyria, andput them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan, and in thecities of the Medes: 
18:12 Because they obeyed not the voice of theLORD their God, but transgressed his covenant, and all that Moses theservant of the LORD commanded, and would not hear them, nor do them.
18:13 Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah did Sennacherib kingof Assyria come up against all the fenced cities of Judah, and tookthem.
18:14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria toLachish, saying, I have offended; return from me: that which thouputtest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed untoHezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirtytalents of gold.
18:15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the houseof the LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house.
18:16 At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of thetemple of the LORD, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judahhad overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria.
18:17 And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakehfrom Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great host against Jerusalem. Andthey went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they were come up, theycame and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in thehighway of the fuller's field.
18:18 And when they had called to the king, there came out to themEliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shebnathe scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.
18:19 And Rabshakeh said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, Thussaith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is thiswherein thou trustest?  
18:20 Thou sayest, (but they are but vainwords,) I have counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thoutrust, that thou rebellest against me?  
18:21 Now, behold, thoutrustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt, onwhich if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so isPharaoh king of Egypt unto all that trust on him.
18:22 But if ye say unto me, We trust in the LORD our God: is not thathe, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, andhath said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altarin Jerusalem?  
18:23 Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges to mylord the king of Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses,if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.
18:24 How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of theleast of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariotsand for horsemen?  
18:25 Am I now come up without the LORD againstthis place to destroy it?  The LORD said to me, Go up against thisland, and destroy it.
18:26 Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebna, and Joah, untoRabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian language;for we understand it: and talk not with us in the Jews' language inthe ears of the people that are on the wall.
18:27 But Rabshakeh said unto them, Hath my master sent me to thymaster, and to thee, to speak these words? hath he not sent me to themen which sit on the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drinktheir own piss with you?  
18:28 Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with aloud voice in the Jews' language, and spake, saying, Hear the word ofthe great king, the king of Assyria: 
18:29 Thus saith the king, Letnot Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you outof his hand: 
18:30 Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD,saying, The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city shall not bedelivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.
18:31 Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria,Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me, and theneat ye every man of his own vine, and every one of his fig tree, anddrink ye every one the waters of his cistern: 
18:32 Until I come andtake you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, aland of bread and vineyards, a land of oil olive and of honey, that yemay live, and not die: and hearken not unto Hezekiah, when hepersuadeth you, saying, The LORD will deliver us.
18:33 Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all his landout of the hand of the king of Assyria?  
18:34 Where are the gods ofHamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, andIvah? have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand?  
18:35 Who arethey among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered theircountry out of mine hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem outof mine hand?  
18:36 But the people held their peace, and answered himnot a word: for the king's commandment was, saying, Answer him not.
18:37 Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over thehousehold, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph therecorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the wordsof Rabshakeh.
19:1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he renthis clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into thehouse of the LORD.
19:2 And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household, and Shebna thescribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, toIsaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
19:3 And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day oftrouble, and of rebuke, and blasphemy; for the children are come tothe birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.
19:4 It may be the LORD thy God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh,whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the livingGod; and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard:wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left.
19:5 So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
19:6 And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thussaith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, withwhich the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.
19:7 Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour,and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by thesword in his own land.
19:8 So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warringagainst Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
19:9 And when he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he iscome out to fight against thee: he sent messengers again untoHezekiah, saying, 
19:10 Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah,saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying,Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.
19:11 Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done toall lands, by destroying them utterly: and shalt thou be delivered?
19:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathershave destroyed; as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children ofEden which were in Thelasar?  
19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, andthe king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena,and Ivah?  
19:14 And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of themessengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up into the house of theLORD, and spread it before the LORD.
19:15 And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD, and said, O LORD God ofIsrael, which dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God, eventhou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast made heavenand earth.
19:16 LORD, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, LORD, thine eyes, andsee: and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him toreproach the living God.
19:17 Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have destroyed thenations and their lands, 
19:18 And have cast their gods into the fire:for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone:therefore they have destroyed them.
19:19 Now therefore, O LORD our God, I beseech thee, save thou us outof his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou artthe LORD God, even thou only.
19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saiththe LORD God of Israel, That which thou hast prayed to me againstSennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.
19:21 This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning him; Thevirgin the daughter of Zion hath despised thee, and laughed thee toscorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.
19:22 Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hastthou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even againstthe Holy One of Israel.
19:23 By thy messengers thou hast reproached the LORD, and hast said,With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of themountains, to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedartrees thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter intothe lodgings of his borders, and into the forest of his Carmel.
19:24 I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of myfeet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places.
19:25 Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it, and of ancienttimes that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thoushouldest be to lay waste fenced cities into ruinous heaps.
19:26 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they weredismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and asthe green herb, as the grass on the house tops, and as corn blastedbefore it be grown up.
19:27 But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, andthy rage against me.
19:28 Because thy rage against me and thy tumult is come up into mineears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thylips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.
19:29 And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year suchthings as grow of themselves, and in the second year that whichspringeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, andplant vineyards, and eat the fruits thereof.
19:30 And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall yetagain take root downward, and bear fruit upward.
19:31 For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they thatescape out of mount Zion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.
19:32 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, Heshall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor comebefore it with shield, nor cast a bank against it.
19:33 By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shallnot come into this city, saith the LORD.
19:34 For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, andfor my servant David's sake.
19:35 And it came to pass that night, that the angel of the LORD wentout, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore andfive thousand: and when they arose early in the morning, behold, theywere all dead corpses.
19:36 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned,and dwelt at Nineveh.
19:37 And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house ofNisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him withthe sword: and they escaped into the land of Armenia. And Esarhaddonhis son reigned in his stead.
20:1 In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And the prophetIsaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith theLORD, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.
20:2 Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto the LORD,saying, 
20:3 I beseech thee, O LORD, remember now how I have walkedbefore thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done thatwhich is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.
20:4 And it came to pass, afore Isaiah was gone out into the middlecourt, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 
20:5 Turn again,and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the LORD, theGod of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thytears: behold, I will heal thee: on the third day thou shalt go upunto the house of the LORD.
20:6 And I will add unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliverthee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I willdefend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.
20:7 And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid iton the boil, and he recovered.
20:8 And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that theLORD will heal me, and that I shall go up into the house of the LORDthe third day?  
20:9 And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have of theLORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he hath spoken: shall theshadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?  
20:10 AndHezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down tendegrees: nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees.
20:11 And Isaiah the prophet cried unto the LORD: and he brought theshadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down in the dial ofAhaz.
20:12 At that time Berodachbaladan, the son of Baladan, king ofBabylon, sent letters and a present unto Hezekiah: for he had heardthat Hezekiah had been sick.
20:13 And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and shewed them all the houseof his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, andthe precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all thatwas found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in allhis dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.
20:14 Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said untohim, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? AndHezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon.
20:15 And he said, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiahanswered, All the things that are in mine house have they seen: thereis nothing among my treasures that I have not shewed them.
20:16 And Isaiah said unto Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD.
20:17 Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and thatwhich thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall becarried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.
20:18 And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shaltbeget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palaceof the king of Babylon.
20:19 Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORDwhich thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if peace andtruth be in my days?  
20:20 And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, andall his might, and how he made a pool, and a conduit, and broughtwater into the city, are they not written in the book of thechronicles of the kings of Judah?  
20:21 And Hezekiah slept with hisfathers: and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.
21:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and reignedfifty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasHephzibah.
21:2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, afterthe abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD cast out before thechildren of Israel.
21:3 For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his fatherhad destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made a grove, asdid Ahab king of Israel; and worshipped all the host of heaven, andserved them.
21:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORDsaid, In Jerusalem will I put my name.
21:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courtsof the house of the LORD.
21:6 And he made his son pass through the fire, and observed times,and used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards: hewrought much wickedness in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him toanger.
21:7 And he set a graven image of the grove that he had made in thehouse, of which the LORD said to David, and to Solomon his son, Inthis house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all tribes ofIsrael, will I put my name for ever: 
21:8 Neither will I make the feetof Israel move any more out of the land which I gave their fathers;only if they will observe to do according to all that I have commandedthem, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commandedthem.
21:9 But they hearkened not: and Manasseh seduced them to do more evilthan did the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the children ofIsrael.
21:10 And the LORD spake by his servants the prophets, saying, 
21:11 Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hathdone wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were before him,and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols: 
21:12 Therefore thussaith the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil uponJerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shalltingle.
21:13 And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and theplummet of the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Jerusalem as a manwipeth a dish, wiping it, and turning it upside down.
21:14 And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliverthem into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey anda spoil to all their enemies; 
21:15 Because they have done that whichwas evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the daytheir fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day.
21:16 Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he hadfilled Jerusalem from one end to another; beside his sin wherewith hemade Judah to sin, in doing that which was evil in the sight of theLORD.
21:17 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, andhis sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of thechronicles of the kings of Judah?  
21:18 And Manasseh slept with hisfathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the gardenof Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.
21:19 Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign, and hereigned two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasMeshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
21:20 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as hisfather Manasseh did.
21:21 And he walked in all the way that his father walked in, andserved the idols that his father served, and worshipped them: 
21:22 And he forsook the LORD God of his fathers, and walked not in the wayof the LORD.
21:23 And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and slew theking in his own house.
21:24 And the people of the land slew all them that had conspiredagainst king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son kingin his stead.
21:25 Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they notwritten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  
21:26 And he was buried in his sepulchre in the garden of Uzza: and Josiahhis son reigned in his stead.
22:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reignedthirty and one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jedidah,the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.
22:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, andwalked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to theright hand or to the left.
22:3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, thatthe king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, thescribe, to the house of the LORD, saying, 
22:4 Go up to Hilkiah thehigh priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into thehouse of the LORD, which the keepers of the door have gathered of thepeople: 
22:5 And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of thework, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD: and let themgive it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the LORD, torepair the breaches of the house, 
22:6 Unto carpenters, and builders,and masons, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
22:7 Howbeit there was no reckoning made with them of the money thatwas delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully.
22:8 And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I havefound the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gavethe book to Shaphan, and he read it.
22:9 And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the kingword again, and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that wasfound in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of them thatdo the work, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD.
22:10 And Shaphan the scribe shewed the king, saying, Hilkiah thepriest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.
22:11 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of thebook of the law, that he rent his clothes.
22:12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son ofShaphan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, andAsahiah a servant of the king's, saying, 
22:13 Go ye, enquire of theLORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning thewords of this book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORDthat is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkenedunto the words of this book, to do according unto all that which iswritten concerning us.
22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, andAsahiah, went unto Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the sonof Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dweltin Jerusalem in the college;) and they communed with her.
22:15 And she said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tellthe man that sent you to me, 
22:16 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I willbring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even allthe words of the book which the king of Judah hath read: 
22:17 Becausethey have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, thatthey might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands;therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and shall notbe quenched.
22:18 But to the king of Judah which sent you to enquire of the LORD,thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Astouching the words which thou hast heard; 
22:19 Because thine heartwas tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the LORD, when thouheardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitantsthereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hastrent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saiththe LORD.
22:20 Behold therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thoushalt be gathered into thy grave in peace; and thine eyes shall notsee all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they broughtthe king word again.
23:1 And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders ofJudah and of Jerusalem.
23:2 And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the menof Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and thepriests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great:and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenantwhich was found in the house of the LORD.
23:3 And the king stood by a pillar, and made a covenant before theLORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments and histestimonies and his statutes with all their heart and all their soul,to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book.And all the people stood to the covenant.
23:4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priestsof the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth outof the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, andfor the grove, and for all the host of heaven: and he burned themwithout Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried the ashes ofthem unto Bethel.
23:5 And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judahhad ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities ofJudah, and in the places round about Jerusalem; them also that burnedincense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets,and to all the host of heaven.
23:6 And he brought out the grove from the house of the LORD, withoutJerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron,and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon thegraves of the children of the people.
23:7 And he brake down the houses of the sodomites, that were by thehouse of the LORD, where the women wove hangings for the grove.
23:8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, anddefiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, fromGeba to Beersheba, and brake down the high places of the gates thatwere in the entering in of the gate of Joshua the governor of thecity, which were on a man's left hand at the gate of the city.
23:9 Nevertheless the priests of the high places came not up to thealtar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they did eat of the unleavenedbread among their brethren.
23:10 And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the childrenof Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter to passthrough the fire to Molech.
23:11 And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given tothe sun, at the entering in of the house of the LORD, by the chamberof Nathanmelech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, and burnedthe chariots of the sun with fire.
23:12 And the altars that were on the top of the upper chamber ofAhaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manassehhad made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, did the king beatdown, and brake them down from thence, and cast the dust of them intothe brook Kidron.
23:13 And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were onthe right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king ofIsrael had builded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, andfor Chemosh the abomination of the Moabites, and for Milcom theabomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.
23:14 And he brake in pieces the images, and cut down the groves, andfilled their places with the bones of men.
23:15 Moreover the altar that was at Bethel, and the high place whichJeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, both thataltar and the high place he brake down, and burned the high place, andstamped it small to powder, and burned the grove.
23:16 And as Josiah turned himself, he spied the sepulchres that werethere in the mount, and sent, and took the bones out of thesepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and polluted it, accordingto the word of the LORD which the man of God proclaimed, whoproclaimed these words.
23:17 Then he said, What title is that that I see? And the men of thecity told him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, which came fromJudah, and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against thealtar of Bethel.
23:18 And he said, Let him alone; let no man move his bones. So theylet his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet that came out ofSamaria.
23:19 And all the houses also of the high places that were in thecities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke theLord to anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all theacts that he had done in Bethel.
23:20 And he slew all the priests of the high places that were thereupon the altars, and burned men's bones upon them, and returned toJerusalem.
23:21 And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the passoverunto the LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant.
23:22 Surely there was not holden such a passover from the days of thejudges that judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel,nor of the kings of Judah; 
23:23 But in the eighteenth year of kingJosiah, wherein this passover was holden to the LORD in Jerusalem.
23:24 Moreover the workers with familiar spirits, and the wizards, andthe images, and the idols, and all the abominations that were spied inthe land of Judah and in Jerusalem, did Josiah put away, that he mightperform the words of the law which were written in the book thatHilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.
23:25 And like unto him was there no king before him, that turned tothe LORD with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all hismight, according to all the law of Moses; neither after him arosethere any like him.
23:26 Notwithstanding the LORD turned not from the fierceness of hisgreat wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah, because ofall the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal.
23:27 And the LORD said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, asI have removed Israel, and will cast off this city Jerusalem which Ihave chosen, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.
23:28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, arethey not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
23:29 In his days Pharaohnechoh king of Egypt went up against the kingof Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him;and he slew him at Megiddo, when he had seen him.
23:30 And his servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, andbrought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulchre. And thepeople of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him,and made him king in his father's stead.
23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign;and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasHamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
23:32 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his fathers had done.
23:33 And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Riblah in the land ofHamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to atribute of an hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.
23:34 And Pharaohnechoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in theroom of Josiah his father, and turned his name to Jehoiakim, and tookJehoahaz away: and he came to Egypt, and died there.
23:35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but hetaxed the land to give the money according to the commandment ofPharaoh: he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land,of every one according to his taxation, to give it unto Pharaohnechoh.
23:36 Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign;and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasZebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
23:37 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his fathers had done.
24:1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakimbecame his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled againsthim.
24:2 And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, and bands ofthe Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children ofAmmon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to theword of the LORD, which he spake by his servants the prophets.
24:3 Surely at the commandment of the LORD came this upon Judah, toremove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according toall that he did; 
24:4 And also for the innocent blood that he shed:for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; which the LORD would notpardon.
24:5 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, arethey not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
24:6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers: and Jehoiachin his sonreigned in his stead.
24:7 And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his land:for the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto theriver Euphrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt.
24:8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and hereigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother's name was Nehushta,the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
24:9 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his father had done.
24:10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon cameup against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, andhis servants did besiege it.
24:12 And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king ofBabylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, andhis officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year ofhis reign.
24:13 And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of theLORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all thevessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple ofthe LORD, as the LORD had said.
24:14 And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and allthe mighty men of valour, even ten thousand captives, and all thecraftsmen and smiths: none remained, save the poorest sort of thepeople of the land.
24:15 And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king'smother, and the king's wives, and his officers, and the mighty of theland, those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
24:16 And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen andsmiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war, even them theking of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.
24:17 And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father's brother kingin his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah.
24:18 Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign,and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasHamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
24:19 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
24:20 For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalemand Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiahrebelled against the king of Babylon.
25:1 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenthmonth, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king ofBabylon came, he, and all his host, against Jerusalem, and pitchedagainst it; and they built forts against it round about.
25:2 And the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of kingZedekiah.
25:3 And on the ninth day of the fourth month the famine prevailed inthe city, and there was no bread for the people of the land.
25:4 And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by nightby the way of the gate between two walls, which is by the king'sgarden: (now the Chaldees were against the city round about:) and theking went the way toward the plain.
25:5 And the army of the Chaldees pursued after the king, and overtookhim in the plains of Jericho: and all his army were scattered fromhim.
25:6 So they took the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylonto Riblah; and they gave judgment upon him.
25:7 And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put outthe eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him with fetters of brass, and carriedhim to Babylon.
25:8 And in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which isthe nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, cameNebuzaradan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon,unto Jerusalem: 
25:9 And he burnt the house of the LORD, and theking's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, and every great man'shouse burnt he with fire.
25:10 And all the army of the Chaldees, that were with the captain ofthe guard, brake down the walls of Jerusalem round about.
25:11 Now the rest of the people that were left in the city, and thefugitives that fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant ofthe multitude, did Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carry away.
25:12 But the captain of the guard left of the door of the poor of theland to be vinedressers and husbandmen.
25:13 And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, andthe bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD, didthe Chaldees break in pieces, and carried the brass of them toBabylon.
25:14 And the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons,and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered, took theyaway.
25:15 And the firepans, and the bowls, and such things as were ofgold, in gold, and of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard tookaway.
25:16 The two pillars, one sea, and the bases which Solomon had madefor the house of the LORD; the brass of all these vessels was withoutweight.
25:17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and thechapiter upon it was brass: and the height of the chapiter threecubits; and the wreathen work, and pomegranates upon the chapiterround about, all of brass: and like unto these had the second pillarwith wreathen work.
25:18 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, andZephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door: 
25:19 And out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men ofwar, and five men of them that were in the king's presence, which werefound in the city, and the principal scribe of the host, whichmustered the people of the land, and threescore men of the people ofthe land that were found in the city: 
25:20 And Nebuzaradan captain ofthe guard took these, and brought them to the king of Babylon toRiblah: 
25:21 And the king of Babylon smote them, and slew them atRiblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away out of theirland.
25:22 And as for the people that remained in the land of Judah, whomNebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, even over them he madeGedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler.
25:23 And when all the captains of the armies, they and their men,heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, there cameto Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johananthe son of Careah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite,and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and their men.
25:24 And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and said untothem, Fear not to be the servants of the Chaldees: dwell in the land,and serve the king of Babylon; and it shall be well with you.
25:25 But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the sonof Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, came, and tenmen with him, and smote Gedaliah, that he died, and the Jews and theChaldees that were with him at Mizpah.
25:26 And all the people, both small and great, and the captains ofthe armies, arose, and came to Egypt: for they were afraid of theChaldees.
25:27 And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of thecaptivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on theseven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king ofBabylon in the year that he began to reign did lift up the head ofJehoiachin king of Judah out of prison; 
25:28 And he spake kindly tohim, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were withhim in Babylon; 
25:29 And changed his prison garments: and he did eatbread continually before him all the days of his life.
25:30 And his allowance was a continual allowance given him of theking, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life.