1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the herdmen of Tekoa, which hesaw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in thedays of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before theearthquake.
1:2 And he said, The LORD will roar from Zion, and utter his voicefrom Jerusalem; and the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, andthe top of Carmel shall wither.
1:3 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Damascus, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they havethreshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron: 
1:4 But I willsend a fire into the house of Hazael, which shall devour the palacesof Benhadad.
1:5 I will break also the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitantfrom the plain of Aven, and him that holdeth the sceptre from thehouse of Eden: and the people of Syria shall go into captivity untoKir, saith the LORD.
1:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Gaza, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because theycarried away captive the whole captivity, to deliver them up to Edom:
1:7 But I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shall devour thepalaces thereof: 
1:8 And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod,and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ashkelon, and I will turn minehand against Ekron: and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish,saith the Lord GOD.
1:9 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Tyrus, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because theydelivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and remembered not thebrotherly covenant: 
1:10 But I will send a fire on the wall of Tyrus,which shall devour the palaces thereof.
1:11 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Edom, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he didpursue his brother with the sword, and did cast off all pity, and hisanger did tear perpetually, and he kept his wrath for ever: 
1:12 But Iwill send a fire upon Teman, which shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.
1:13 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of the children ofAmmon, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof;because they have ripped up the women with child of Gilead, that theymight enlarge their border: 
1:14 But I will kindle a fire in the wallof Rabbah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof, with shouting inthe day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind: 
1:15 And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together,saith the LORD.
2:1 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Moab, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burnedthe bones of the king of Edom into lime: 
2:2 But I will send a fireupon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kirioth: and Moab shalldie with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet: 
2:3 And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay allthe princes thereof with him, saith the LORD.
2:4 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Judah, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they havedespised the law of the LORD, and have not kept his commandments, andtheir lies caused them to err, after the which their fathers havewalked: 
2:5 But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour thepalaces of Jerusalem.
2:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Israel, and forfour, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they soldthe righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes; 
2:7 Thatpant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turnaside the way of the meek: and a man and his father will go in untothe same maid, to profane my holy name: 
2:8 And they lay themselvesdown upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar, and they drink thewine of the condemned in the house of their god.
2:9 Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like theheight of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyedhis fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
2:10 Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you fortyyears through the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
2:11 And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young menfor Nazarites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith theLORD.
2:12 But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded theprophets, saying, Prophesy not.
2:13 Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that is fullof sheaves.
2:14 Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strongshall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliverhimself: 
2:15 Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and hethat is swift of foot shall not deliver himself: neither shall he thatrideth the horse deliver himself.
2:16 And he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away nakedin that day, saith the LORD.
3:1 Hear this word that the LORD hath spoken against you, O childrenof Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the landof Egypt, saying, 
3:2 You only have I known of all the families of theearth: therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.
3:3 Can two walk together, except they be agreed?  
3:4 Will a lionroar in the forest, when he hath no prey? will a young lion cry out ofhis den, if he have taken nothing?  
3:5 Can a bird fall in a snareupon the earth, where no gin is for him?  shall one take up a snarefrom the earth, and have taken nothing at all?  
3:6 Shall a trumpet beblown in the city, and the people not be afraid?  shall there be evilin a city, and the LORD hath not done it?  
3:7 Surely the Lord GODwill do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants theprophets.
3:8 The lion hath roared, who will not fear? the Lord GOD hath spoken,who can but prophesy?  
3:9 Publish in the palaces at Ashdod, and inthe palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves uponthe mountains of Samaria, and behold the great tumults in the midstthereof, and the oppressed in the midst thereof.
3:10 For they know not to do right, saith the LORD, who store upviolence and robbery in their palaces.
3:11 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; An adversary there shall beeven round about the land; and he shall bring down thy strength fromthee, and thy palaces shall be spoiled.
3:12 Thus saith the LORD; As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth ofthe lion two legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children ofIsrael be taken out that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, andin Damascus in a couch.
3:13 Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord GOD,the God of hosts, 
3:14 That in the day that I shall visit thetransgressions of Israel upon him I will also visit the altars ofBethel: and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to theground.
3:15 And I will smite the winter house with the summer house; and thehouses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end,saith the LORD.
4:1 Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that are in the mountain ofSamaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, which say totheir masters, Bring, and let us drink.
4:2 The Lord GOD hath sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shallcome upon you, that he will take you away with hooks, and yourposterity with fishhooks.
4:3 And ye shall go out at the breaches, every cow at that which isbefore her; and ye shall cast them into the palace, saith the LORD.
4:4 Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgression;and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after threeyears: 
4:5 And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, andproclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you, O yechildren of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.
4:6 And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,and want of bread in all your places: yet have ye not returned untome, saith the LORD.
4:7 And also I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yetthree months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city,and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rainedupon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered.
4:8 So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; butthey were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith theLORD.
4:9 I have smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens andyour vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, thepalmerworm devoured them: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith theLORD.
4:10 I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt:your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away yourhorses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto yournostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.
4:11 I have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom andGomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yethave ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.
4:12 Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and because I willdo this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.
4:13 For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind,and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morningdarkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The LORD,The God of hosts, is his name.
5:1 Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation,O house of Israel.
5:2 The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she isforsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up.
5:3 For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out by a thousandshall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an hundred shallleave ten, to the house of Israel.
5:4 For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, andye shall live: 
5:5 But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, andpass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, andBethel shall come to nought.
5:6 Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire inthe house of Joseph, and devour it, and there be none to quench it inBethel.
5:7 Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness inthe earth, 
5:8 Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, andturneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day darkwith night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth themout upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name: 
5:9 Thatstrengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiledshall come against the fortress.
5:10 They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him thatspeaketh uprightly.
5:11 Forasmuch therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and yetake from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone,but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards,but ye shall not drink wine of them.
5:12 For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins:they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poorin the gate from their right.
5:13 Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it isan evil time.
5:14 Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, theGod of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken.
5:15 Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in thegate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto theremnant of Joseph.
5:16 Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD, saith thus;Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall say in all thehighways, Alas! alas!  and they shall call the husbandman to mourning,and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.
5:17 And in all vineyards shall be wailing: for I will pass throughthee, saith the LORD.
5:18 Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end is itfor you? the day of the LORD is darkness, and not light.
5:19 As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or wentinto the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bithim.
5:20 Shall not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? evenvery dark, and no brightness in it?  
5:21 I hate, I despise your feastdays, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.
5:22 Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, Iwill not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offerings ofyour fat beasts.
5:23 Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will nothear the melody of thy viols.
5:24 But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as amighty stream.
5:25 Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in thewilderness forty years, O house of Israel?  
5:26 But ye have borne thetabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god,which ye made to yourselves.
5:27 Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.
6:1 Woe to them that are at ease in Zion, and trust in the mountain ofSamaria, which are named chief of the nations, to whom the house ofIsrael came!  
6:2 Pass ye unto Calneh, and see; and from thence go yeto Hamath the great: then go down to Gath of the Philistines: be theybetter than these kingdoms? or their border greater than your border?
6:3 Ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violenceto come near; 
6:4 That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselvesupon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calvesout of the midst of the stall; 
6:5 That chant to the sound of theviol, and invent to themselves instruments of musick, like David; 
6:6 That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the chiefointments: but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph.
6:7 Therefore now shall they go captive with the first that gocaptive, and the banquet of them that stretched themselves shall beremoved.
6:8 The Lord GOD hath sworn by himself, saith the LORD the God ofhosts, I abhor the excellency of Jacob, and hate his palaces:therefore will I deliver up the city with all that is therein.
6:9 And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten men in one house,that they shall die.
6:10 And a man's uncle shall take him up, and he that burneth him, tobring out the bones out of the house, and shall say unto him that isby the sides of the house, Is there yet any with thee? and he shallsay, No. Then shall he say, Hold thy tongue: for we may not makemention of the name of the LORD.
6:11 For, behold, the LORD commandeth, and he will smite the greathouse with breaches, and the little house with clefts.
6:12 Shall horses run upon the rock? will one plow there with oxen?for ye have turned judgment into gall, and the fruit of righteousnessinto hemlock: 
6:13 Ye which rejoice in a thing of nought, which say,Have we not taken to us horns by our own strength?  
6:14 But, behold,I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saith theLORD the God of hosts; and they shall afflict you from the entering inof Hemath unto the river of the wilderness.
7:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me; and, behold, he formedgrasshoppers in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth;and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
7:2 And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating thegrass of the land, then I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech thee:by whom shall Jacob arise? for he is small.
7:3 The LORD repented for this: It shall not be, saith the LORD.
7:4 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and, behold, the Lord GODcalled to contend by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and did eatup a part.
7:5 Then said I, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech thee: by whom shallJacob arise? for he is small.
7:6 The LORD repented for this: This also shall not be, saith the LordGOD.
7:7 Thus he shewed me: and, behold, the LORD stood upon a wall made bya plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand.
7:8 And the LORD said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, Aplumbline. Then said the LORD, Behold, I will set a plumbline in themidst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more: 
7:9 And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries ofIsrael shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house ofJeroboam with the sword.
7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king ofIsrael, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of thehouse of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.
7:11 For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israelshall surely be led away captive out of their own land.
7:12 Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thee away intothe land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: 
7:13 Butprophesy not again any more at Bethel: for it is the king's chapel,and it is the king's court.
7:14 Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet,neither was I a prophet's son; but I was an herdman, and a gatherer ofsycomore fruit: 
7:15 And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, andthe LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel.
7:16 Now therefore hear thou the word of the LORD: Thou sayest,Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not thy word against the houseof Isaac.
7:17 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Thy wife shall be an harlot in thecity, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thyland shall be divided by line; and thou shalt die in a polluted land:and Israel shall surely go into captivity forth of his land.
8:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and behold a basket ofsummer fruit.
8:2 And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A basket of summerfruit. Then said the LORD unto me, The end is come upon my people ofIsrael; I will not again pass by them any more.
8:3 And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day, saiththe Lord GOD: there shall be many dead bodies in every place; theyshall cast them forth with silence.
8:4 Hear this, O ye that swallow up the needy, even to make the poorof the land to fail, 
8:5 Saying, When will the new moon be gone, thatwe may sell corn? and the sabbath, that we may set forth wheat, makingthe ephah small, and the shekel great, and falsifying the balances bydeceit?  
8:6 That we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for apair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?  
8:7 The LORDhath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never forget anyof their works.
8:8 Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn thatdwelleth therein? and it shall rise up wholly as a flood; and it shallbe cast out and drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.
8:9 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord GOD, that Iwill cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth inthe clear day: 
8:10 And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and allyour songs into lamentation; and I will bring up sackcloth upon allloins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as themourning of an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day.
8:11 Behold, the days come, saith the Lord GOD, that I will send afamine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, butof hearing the words of the LORD: 
8:12 And they shall wander from seato sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run to and froto seek the word of the LORD, and shall not find it.
8:13 In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint forthirst.
8:14 They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan,liveth; and, The manner of Beersheba liveth; even they shall fall, andnever rise up again.
9:1 I saw the LORD standing upon the altar: and he said, Smite thelintel of the door, that the posts may shake: and cut them in thehead, all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: hethat fleeth of them shall not flee away, and he that escapeth of themshall not be delivered.
9:2 Though they dig into hell, thence shall mine hand take them;though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down: 
9:3 Andthough they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search andtake them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in thebottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and he shallbite them: 
9:4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies,thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I willset mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.
9:5 And the Lord GOD of hosts is he that toucheth the land, and itshall melt, and all that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall riseup wholly like a flood; and shall be drowned, as by the flood ofEgypt.
9:6 It is he that buildeth his stories in the heaven, and hath foundedhis troop in the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, andpoureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name.
9:7 Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children ofIsrael? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the landof Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
9:8 Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, andI will destroy it from off the face of the earth; saving that I willnot utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith the LORD.
9:9 For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel amongall nations, like as corn is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not theleast grain fall upon the earth.
9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say,The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us.
9:11 In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that isfallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up hisruins, and I will build it as in the days of old: 
9:12 That they maypossess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, which are calledby my name, saith the LORD that doeth this.
9:13 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the plowman shallovertake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed;and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.
9:14 And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israel, andthey shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shallplant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also makegardens, and eat the fruit of them.
9:15 And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more bepulled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORDthy God.