1:1 The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.
1:2 Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all isvanity.
1:3 What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh under thesun?  
1:4 One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh:but the earth abideth for ever.
1:5 The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to hisplace where he arose.
1:6 The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north;it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again accordingto his circuits.
1:7 All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; unto theplace from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.
1:8 All things are full of labour; man cannot utter it: the eye is notsatisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
1:9 The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and thatwhich is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thingunder the sun.
1:10 Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? ithath been already of old time, which was before us.
1:11 There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there beany remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall comeafter.
1:12 I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.
1:13 And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerningall things that are done under heaven: this sore travail hath Godgiven to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.
1:14 I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and,behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit.
1:15 That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which iswanting cannot be numbered.
1:16 I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to greatestate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have beenbefore me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of wisdomand knowledge.
1:17 And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness andfolly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.
1:18 For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increasethknowledge increaseth sorrow.
2:1 I said in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth,therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also is vanity.
2:2 I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, What doeth it?  
2:3 Isought in mine heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquainting mineheart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what wasthat good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heavenall the days of their life.
2:4 I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted mevineyards: 
2:5 I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees inthem of all kind of fruits: 
2:6 I made me pools of water, to watertherewith the wood that bringeth forth trees: 
2:7 I got me servantsand maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had greatpossessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalembefore me: 
2:8 I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiartreasure of kings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and womensingers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments,and that of all sorts.
2:9 So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me inJerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.
2:10 And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheldnot my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labour: andthis was my portion of all my labour.
2:11 Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and onthe labour that I had laboured to do: and, behold, all was vanity andvexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.
2:12 And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: forwhat can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hathbeen already done.
2:13 Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excellethdarkness.
2:14 The wise man's eyes are in his head; but the fool walketh indarkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to themall.
2:15 Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so ithappeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in myheart, that this also is vanity.
2:16 For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool forever; seeing that which now is in the days to come shall all beforgotten.And how dieth the wise man? as the fool.
2:17 Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought underthe sun is grievous unto me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit.
2:18 Yea, I hated all my labour which I had taken under the sun:because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.
2:19 And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yetshall he have rule over all my labour wherein I have laboured, andwherein I have shewed myself wise under the sun. This is also vanity.
2:20 Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all thelabour which I took under the sun.
2:21 For there is a man whose labour is in wisdom, and in knowledge,and in equity; yet to a man that hath not laboured therein shall heleave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.
2:22 For what hath man of all his labour, and of the vexation of hisheart, wherein he hath laboured under the sun?  
2:23 For all his daysare sorrows, and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest inthe night. This is also vanity.
2:24 There is nothing better for a man, than that he should eat anddrink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour. Thisalso I saw, that it was from the hand of God.
2:25 For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto, more than I?
2:26 For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, andknowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather andto heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This alsois vanity and vexation of spirit.
3:1 To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purposeunder the heaven: 
3:2 A time to be born, and a time to die; a time toplant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; 
3:3 A time tokill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to buildup; 
3:4 A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and atime to dance; 
3:5 A time to cast away stones, and a time to gatherstones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain fromembracing; 
3:6 A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, anda time to cast away; 
3:7 A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time tokeep silence, and a time to speak; 
3:8 A time to love, and a time tohate; a time of war, and a time of peace.
3:9 What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboureth?
3:10 I have seen the travail, which God hath given to the sons of mento be exercised in it.
3:11 He hath made every thing beautiful in his time: also he hath setthe world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work thatGod maketh from the beginning to the end.
3:12 I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice,and to do good in his life.
3:13 And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the goodof all his labour, it is the gift of God.
3:14 I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothingcan be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth it, thatmen should fear before him.
3:15 That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath alreadybeen; and God requireth that which is past.
3:16 And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, thatwickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquitywas there.
3:17 I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and thewicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for everywork.
3:18 I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men,that God might manifest them, and that they might see that theythemselves are beasts.
3:19 For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; evenone thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea,they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above abeast: for all is vanity.
3:20 All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dustagain.
3:21 Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spiritof the beast that goeth downward to the earth?  
3:22 Wherefore Iperceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoicein his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him tosee what shall be after him?  
4:1 So I returned, and considered allthe oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears ofsuch as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side oftheir oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.
4:2 Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than theliving which are yet alive.
4:3 Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, whohath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.
4:4 Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that forthis a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity andvexation of spirit.
4:5 The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.
4:6 Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full withtravail and vexation of spirit.
4:7 Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.
4:8 There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hathneither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour;neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whomdo I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, itis a sore travail.
4:9 Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for theirlabour.
4:10 For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to himthat is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.
4:11 Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can onebe warm alone?  
4:12 And if one prevail against him, two shallwithstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
4:13 Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king,who will no more be admonished.
4:14 For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that isborn in his kingdom becometh poor.
4:15 I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with thesecond child that shall stand up in his stead.
4:16 There is no end of all the people, even of all that have beenbefore them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him.Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.
5:1 Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be moreready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they considernot that they do evil.
5:2 Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty toutter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth:therefore let thy words be few.
5:3 For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool'svoice is known by multitude of words.
5:4 When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hathno pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.
5:5 Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldestvow and not pay.
5:6 Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thoubefore the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angryat thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?  
5:7 For in themultitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: butfear thou God.
5:8 If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent pervertingof judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: forhe that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher thanthey.
5:9 Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself isserved by the field.
5:10 He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor hethat loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.
5:11 When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and whatgood is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them withtheir eyes?  
5:12 The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether heeat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer himto sleep.
5:13 There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely,riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.
5:14 But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son,and there is nothing in his hand.
5:15 As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return togo as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he maycarry away in his hand.
5:16 And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, soshall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?
5:17 All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrowand wrath with his sickness.
5:18 Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one toeat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that hetaketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him:for it is his portion.
5:19 Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hathgiven him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and torejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God.
5:20 For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because Godanswereth him in the joy of his heart.
6:1 There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is commonamong men: 
6:2 A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, andhonour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that hedesireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a strangereateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.
6:3 If a man beget an hundred children, and live many years, so thatthe days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good,and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth isbetter than he.
6:4 For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and hisname shall be covered with darkness.
6:5 Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hathmore rest than the other.
6:6 Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seenno good: do not all go to one place?  
6:7 All the labour of man is forhis mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.
6:8 For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor,that knoweth to walk before the living?  
6:9 Better is the sight ofthe eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity andvexation of spirit.
6:10 That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it isman: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.
6:11 Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man thebetter?  
6:12 For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, allthe days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who cantell a man what shall be after him under the sun?  
7:1 A good name isbetter than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day ofone's birth.
7:2 It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to thehouse of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living willlay it to his heart.
7:3 Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of thecountenance the heart is made better.
7:4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heartof fools is in the house of mirth.
7:5 It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man tohear the song of fools.
7:6 For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter ofthe fool: this also is vanity.
7:7 Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth theheart.
7:8 Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and thepatient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
7:9 Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in thebosom of fools.
7:10 Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were betterthan these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concerning this.
7:11 Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit tothem that see the sun.
7:12 For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but theexcellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that haveit.
7:13 Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, whichhe hath made crooked?  
7:14 In the day of prosperity be joyful, but inthe day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over againstthe other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.
7:15 All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a justman that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked manthat prolongeth his life in his wickedness.
7:16 Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: whyshouldest thou destroy thyself ?  
7:17 Be not over much wicked,neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?  
7:18 It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from thiswithdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth ofthem all.
7:19 Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which arein the city.
7:20 For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, andsinneth not.
7:21 Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hearthy servant curse thee: 
7:22 For oftentimes also thine own heartknoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.
7:23 All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but itwas far from me.
7:24 That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?
7:25 I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek outwisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly,even of foolishness and madness: 
7:26 And I find more bitter thandeath the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands asbands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shallbe taken by her.
7:27 Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one byone, to find out the account: 
7:28 Which yet my soul seeketh, but Ifind not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among allthose have I not found.
7:29 Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; butthey have sought out many inventions.
8:1 Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of athing?  a man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness ofhis face shall be changed.
8:2 I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regardof the oath of God.
8:3 Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing;for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.
8:4 Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say untohim, What doest thou?  
8:5 Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel noevil thing: and a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment.
8:6 Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore themisery of man is great upon him.
8:7 For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him whenit shall be?  
8:8 There is no man that hath power over the spirit toretain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: andthere is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliverthose that are given to it.
8:9 All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that isdone under the sun: there is a time wherein one man ruleth overanother to his own hurt.
8:10 And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from theplace of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they hadso done: this is also vanity.
8:11 Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily,therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to doevil.
8:12 Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his days beprolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fearGod, which fear before him: 
8:13 But it shall not be well with thewicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow;because he feareth not before God.
8:14 There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there bejust men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked;again, there be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the workof the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.
8:15 Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing underthe sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shallabide with him of his labour the days of his life, which God givethhim under the sun.
8:16 When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and to see the businessthat is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither day nornight seeth sleep with his eyes:) 
8:17 Then I beheld all the work ofGod, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun:because though a man labour to seek it out, yet he shall not find it;yea farther; though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not beable to find it.
9:1 For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this,that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand ofGod: no man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them.
9:2 All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous,and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean;to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is thegood, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth anoath.
9:3 This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, thatthere is one event unto all: yea, also the heart of the sons of men isfull of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and afterthat they go to the dead.
9:4 For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for aliving dog is better than a dead lion.
9:5 For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them isforgotten.
9:6 Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is nowperished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thingthat is done under the sun.
9:7 Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with amerry heart; for God now accepteth thy works.
9:8 Let thy garments be always white; and let thy head lack noointment.
9:9 Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of thelife of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all thedays of thy vanity: for that is thy portion in this life, and in thylabour which thou takest under the sun.
9:10 Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; forthere is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave,whither thou goest.
9:11 I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to theswift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise,nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men ofskill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.
9:12 For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are takenin an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so arethe sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly uponthem.
9:13 This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed greatunto me: 
9:14 There was a little city, and few men within it; andthere came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built greatbulwarks against it: 
9:15 Now there was found in it a poor wise man,and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered thatsame poor man.
9:16 Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless thepoor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.
9:17 The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of himthat ruleth among fools.
9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyethmuch good.
10:1 Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth astinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation forwisdom and honour.
10:2 A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart athis left.
10:3 Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdomfaileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.
10:4 If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thyplace; for yielding pacifieth great offences.
10:5 There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an errorwhich proceedeth from the ruler: 
10:6 Folly is set in great dignity,and the rich sit in low place.
10:7 I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servantsupon the earth.
10:8 He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh anhedge, a serpent shall bite him.
10:9 Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith; and he thatcleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.
10:10 If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must heput to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.
10:11 Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbleris no better.
10:12 The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of afool will swallow up himself.
10:13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and theend of his talk is mischievous madness.
10:14 A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be;and what shall be after him, who can tell him?  
10:15 The labour ofthe foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how togo to the city.
10:16 Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princeseat in the morning!  
10:17 Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king isthe son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength,and not for drunkenness!  
10:18 By much slothfulness the buildingdecayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeththrough.
10:19 A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but moneyanswereth all things.
10:20 Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not therich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice,and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.
11:1 Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after manydays.
11:2 Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest notwhat evil shall be upon the earth.
11:3 If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon theearth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, inthe place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.
11:4 He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeththe clouds shall not reap.
11:5 As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how thebones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so thouknowest not the works of God who maketh all.
11:6 In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold notthine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this orthat, or whether they both shall be alike good.
11:7 Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyesto behold the sun: 
11:8 But if a man live many years, and rejoice inthem all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall bemany. All that cometh is vanity.
11:9 Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer theein the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and inthe sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things Godwill bring thee into judgment.
11:10 Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil fromthy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity.
12:1 Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evildays come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have nopleasure in them; 
12:2 While the sun, or the light, or the moon, orthe stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain: 
12:3 In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strongmen shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few,and those that look out of the windows be darkened, 
12:4 And the doorsshall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low,and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughtersof musick shall be brought low; 
12:5 Also when they shall be afraid ofthat which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond treeshall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desireshall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners goabout the streets: 
12:6 Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or thegolden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, orthe wheel broken at the cistern.
12:7 Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spiritshall return unto God who gave it.
12:8 Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher; all is vanity.
12:9 And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught thepeople knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set inorder many proverbs.
12:10 The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that whichwas written was upright, even words of truth.
12:11 The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by themasters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.
12:12 And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making manybooks there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
12:13 Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, andkeep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.
12:14 For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secretthing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.