1:1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasueruswhich reigned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred andseven and twenty provinces:) 
1:2 That in those days, when the kingAhasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan thepalace, 
1:3 In the third year of his reign, he made a feast unto allhis princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, thenobles and princes of the provinces, being before him: 
1:4 When heshewed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honour of hisexcellent majesty many days, even an hundred and fourscore days.
1:5 And when these days were expired, the king made a feast unto allthe people that were present in Shushan the palace, both unto greatand small, seven days, in the court of the garden of the king'spalace; 
1:6 Where were white, green, and blue, hangings, fastened withcords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble:the beds were of gold and silver, upon a pavement of red, and blue,and white, and black, marble.
1:7 And they gave them drink in vessels of gold, (the vessels beingdiverse one from another,) and royal wine in abundance, according tothe state of the king.
1:8 And the drinking was according to the law; none did compel: for sothe king had appointed to all the officers of his house, that theyshould do according to every man's pleasure.
1:9 Also Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royalhouse which belonged to king Ahasuerus.
1:10 On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry withwine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha,Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberlains that served in the presenceof Ahasuerus the king, 
1:11 To bring Vashti the queen before the kingwith the crown royal, to shew the people and the princes her beauty:for she was fair to look on.
1:12 But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment byhis chamberlains: therefore was the king very wroth, and his angerburned in him.
1:13 Then the king said to the wise men, which knew the times, (for sowas the king's manner toward all that knew law and judgment: 
1:14 Andthe next unto him was Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres,Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, which sawthe king's face, and which sat the first in the kingdom;) 
1:15 Whatshall we do unto the queen Vashti according to law, because she hathnot performed the commandment of the king Ahasuerus by thechamberlains?  
1:16 And Memucan answered before the king and theprinces, Vashti the queen hath not done wrong to the king only, butalso to all the princes, and to all the people that are in all theprovinces of the king Ahasuerus.
1:17 For this deed of the queen shall come abroad unto all women, sothat they shall despise their husbands in their eyes, when it shall bereported, The king Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be broughtin before him, but she came not.
1:18 Likewise shall the ladies of Persia and Media say this day untoall the king's princes, which have heard of the deed of the queen.Thus shall there arise too much contempt and wrath.
1:19 If it please the king, let there go a royal commandment from him,and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes,that it be not altered, That Vashti come no more before kingAhasuerus; and let the king give her royal estate unto another that isbetter than she.
1:20 And when the king's decree which he shall make shall be publishedthroughout all his empire, (for it is great,) all the wives shall giveto their husbands honour, both to great and small.
1:21 And the saying pleased the king and the princes; and the king didaccording to the word of Memucan: 
1:22 For he sent letters into allthe king's provinces, into every province according to the writingthereof, and to every people after their language, that every manshould bear rule in his own house, and that it should be publishedaccording to the language of every people.
2:1 After these things, when the wrath of king Ahasuerus was appeased,he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreedagainst her.
2:2 Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, Let therebe fair young virgins sought for the king: 
2:3 And let the kingappoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they maygather together all the fair young virgins unto Shushan the palace, tothe house of the women, unto the custody of Hege the king'schamberlain, keeper of the women; and let their things forpurification be given them: 
2:4 And let the maiden which pleaseth theking be queen instead of Vashti.And the thing pleased the king; and he did so.
2:5 Now in Shushan the palace there was a certain Jew, whose name wasMordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, aBenjamite; 
2:6 Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with thecaptivity which had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah,whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away.
2:7 And he brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter:for she had neither father nor mother, and the maid was fair andbeautiful; whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead, tookfor his own daughter.
2:8 So it came to pass, when the king's commandment and his decree washeard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan thepalace, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was brought also unto theking's house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.
2:9 And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him; andhe speedily gave her her things for purification, with such things asbelonged to her, and seven maidens, which were meet to be given her,out of the king's house: and he preferred her and her maids unto thebest place of the house of the women.
2:10 Esther had not shewed her people nor her kindred: for Mordecaihad charged her that she should not shew it.
2:11 And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women'shouse, to know how Esther did, and what should become of her.
2:12 Now when every maid's turn was come to go in to king Ahasuerus,after that she had been twelve months, according to the manner of thewomen, (for so were the days of their purifications accomplished, towit, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odours,and with other things for the purifying of the women;) 
2:13 Then thuscame every maiden unto the king; whatsoever she desired was given herto go with her out of the house of the women unto the king's house.
2:14 In the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into thesecond house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king'schamberlain, which kept the concubines: she came in unto the king nomore, except the king delighted in her, and that she were called byname.
2:15 Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle ofMordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come to go in untothe king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's chamberlain,the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favour in thesight of all them that looked upon her.
2:16 So Esther was taken unto king Ahasuerus into his house royal inthe tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of hisreign.
2:17 And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtainedgrace and favour in his sight more than all the virgins; so that heset the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen instead ofVashti.
2:18 Then the king made a great feast unto all his princes and hisservants, even Esther's feast; and he made a release to the provinces,and gave gifts, according to the state of the king.
2:19 And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, thenMordecai sat in the king's gate.
2:20 Esther had not yet shewed her kindred nor her people; as Mordecaihad charged her: for Esther did the commandment of Mordecai, like aswhen she was brought up with him.
2:21 In those days, while Mordecai sat in the king's gate, two of theking's chamberlains, Bigthan and Teresh, of those which kept the door,were wroth, and sought to lay hands on the king Ahasuerus.
2:22 And the thing was known to Mordecai, who told it unto Esther thequeen; and Esther certified the king thereof in Mordecai's name.
2:23 And when inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out;therefore they were both hanged on a tree: and it was written in thebook of the chronicles before the king.
3:1 After these things did king Ahasuerus promote Haman the son ofHammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above allthe princes that were with him.
3:2 And all the king's servants, that were in the king's gate, bowed,and reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerning him.But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence.
3:3 Then the king's servants, which were in the king's gate, said untoMordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment?  
3:4 Now itcame to pass, when they spake daily unto him, and he hearkened notunto them, that they told Haman, to see whether Mordecai's matterswould stand: for he had told them that he was a Jew.
3:5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence,then was Haman full of wrath.
3:6 And he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone; for they hadshewed him the people of Mordecai: wherefore Haman sought to destroyall the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, eventhe people of Mordecai.
3:7 In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twelfth yearof king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman fromday to day, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, that is,the month Adar.
3:8 And Haman said unto king Ahasuerus, There is a certain peoplescattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provincesof thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from all people; neitherkeep they the king's laws: therefore it is not for the king's profitto suffer them.
3:9 If it please the king, let it be written that they may bedestroyed: and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the handsof those that have the charge of the business, to bring it into theking's treasuries.
3:10 And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it unto Hamanthe son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy.
3:11 And the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, thepeople also, to do with them as it seemeth good to thee.
3:12 Then were the king's scribes called on the thirteenth day of thefirst month, and there was written according to all that Haman hadcommanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that wereover every province, and to the rulers of every people of everyprovince according to the writing thereof, and to every people aftertheir language; in the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, andsealed with the king's ring.
3:13 And the letters were sent by posts into all the king's provinces,to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young andold, little children and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenthday of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to take thespoil of them for a prey.
3:14 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in everyprovince was published unto all people, that they should be readyagainst that day.
3:15 The posts went out, being hastened by the king's commandment, andthe decree was given in Shushan the palace. And the king and Haman satdown to drink; but the city Shushan was perplexed.
4:1 When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai rent hisclothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midstof the city, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry; 
4:2 And came evenbefore the king's gate: for none might enter into the king's gateclothed with sackcloth.
4:3 And in every province, whithersoever the king's commandment andhis decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting,and weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.
4:4 So Esther's maids and her chamberlains came and told it her. Thenwas the queen exceedingly grieved; and she sent raiment to clotheMordecai, and to take away his sackcloth from him: but he received itnot.
4:5 Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains,whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandmentto Mordecai, to know what it was, and why it was.
4:6 So Hatach went forth to Mordecai unto the street of the city,which was before the king's gate.
4:7 And Mordecai told him of all that had happened unto him, and ofthe sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king'streasuries for the Jews, to destroy them.
4:8 Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that wasgiven at Shushan to destroy them, to shew it unto Esther, and todeclare it unto her, and to charge her that she should go in unto theking, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before himfor her people.
4:9 And Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.
4:10 Again Esther spake unto Hatach, and gave him commandment untoMordecai; 
4:11 All the king's servants, and the people of the king'sprovinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or women, shall comeunto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is onelaw of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shallhold out the golden sceptre, that he may live: but I have not beencalled to come in unto the king these thirty days.
4:12 And they told to Mordecai Esther's words.
4:13 Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyselfthat thou shalt escape in the king's house, more than all the Jews.
4:14 For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shallthere enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from anotherplace; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and whoknoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?
4:15 Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer, 
4:16 Go,gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast yefor me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also andmy maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king,which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish.
4:17 So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Estherhad commanded him.
5:1 Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royalapparel, and stood in the inner court of the king's house, overagainst the king's house: and the king sat upon his royal throne inthe royal house, over against the gate of the house.
5:2 And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in thecourt, that she obtained favour in his sight: and the king held out toEsther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near,and touched the top of the sceptre.
5:3 Then said the king unto her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? andwhat is thy request? it shall be even given thee to the half of thekingdom.
5:4 And Esther answered, If it seem good unto the king, let the kingand Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.
5:5 Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that he may do asEsther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet thatEsther had prepared.
5:6 And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, What is thypetition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? evento the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.
5:7 Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is; 
5:8 If I have found favour in the sight of the king, and if it please theking to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king andHaman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will doto morrow as the king hath said.
5:9 Then went Haman forth that day joyful and with a glad heart: butwhen Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, that he stood not up, normoved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai.
5:10 Nevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, hesent and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.
5:11 And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the multitudeof his children, and all the things wherein the king had promoted him,and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of theking.
5:12 Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come inwith the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; andto morrow am I invited unto her also with the king.
5:13 Yet all this availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai theJew sitting at the king's gate.
5:14 Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let agallows be made of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou untothe king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go thou in merrilywith the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman; and hecaused the gallows to be made.
6:1 On that night could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bringthe book of records of the chronicles; and they were read before theking.
6:2 And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana andTeresh, two of the king's chamberlains, the keepers of the door, whosought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.
6:3 And the king said, What honour and dignity hath been done toMordecai for this? Then said the king's servants that ministered untohim, There is nothing done for him.
6:4 And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come intothe outward court of the king's house, to speak unto the king to hangMordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
6:5 And the king's servants said unto him, Behold, Haman standeth inthe court. And the king said, Let him come in.
6:6 So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be doneunto the man whom the king delighteth to honour? Now Haman thought inhis heart, To whom would the king delight to do honour more than tomyself?  
6:7 And Haman answered the king, For the man whom the kingdelighteth to honour, 
6:8 Let the royal apparel be brought which theking useth to wear, and the horse that the king rideth upon, and thecrown royal which is set upon his head: 
6:9 And let this apparel andhorse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most nobleprinces, that they may array the man withal whom the king delightethto honour, and bring him on horseback through the street of the city,and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom theking delighteth to honour.
6:10 Then the king said to Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel andthe horse, as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew, thatsitteth at the king's gate: let nothing fail of all that thou hastspoken.
6:11 Then took Haman the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai,and brought him on horseback through the street of the city, andproclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the man whom theking delighteth to honour.
6:12 And Mordecai came again to the king's gate. But Haman hasted tohis house mourning, and having his head covered.
6:13 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thingthat had befallen him. Then said his wise men and Zeresh his wife untohim, If Mordecai be of the seed of the Jews, before whom thou hastbegun to fall, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt surelyfall before him.
6:14 And while they were yet talking with him, came the king'schamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman unto the banquet that Estherhad prepared.
7:1 So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen.
7:2 And the king said again unto Esther on the second day at thebanquet of wine, What is thy petition, queen Esther? and it shall begranted thee: and what is thy request? and it shall be performed, evento the half of the kingdom.
7:3 Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favour inthy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given meat my petition, and my people at my request: 
7:4 For we are sold, Iand my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if wehad been sold for bondmen and bondwomen, I had held my tongue,although the enemy could not countervail the king's damage.
7:5 Then the king Ahasuerus answered and said unto Esther the queen,Who is he, and where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?
7:6 And Esther said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman.Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.
7:7 And the king arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath wentinto the palace garden: and Haman stood up to make request for hislife to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determinedagainst him by the king.
7:8 Then the king returned out of the palace garden into the place ofthe banquet of wine; and Haman was fallen upon the bed whereon Estherwas. Then said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in thehouse? As the word went out of king's mouth, they covered Haman'sface.
7:9 And Harbonah, one of the chamberlains, said before the king,Behold also, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman had made forMordecai, who spoken good for the king, standeth in the house ofHaman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.
7:10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared forMordecai. Then was the king's wrath pacified.
8:1 On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman theJews' enemy unto Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king;for Esther had told what he was unto her.
8:2 And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, andgave it unto Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house ofHaman.
8:3 And Esther spake yet again before the king, and fell down at hisfeet, and besought him with tears to put away the mischief of Hamanthe Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.
8:4 Then the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Estherarose, and stood before the king, 
8:5 And said, If it please the king,and if I have favour in his sight, and the thing seem right before theking, and I be pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse theletters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which hewrote to destroy the Jews which are in all the king's provinces: 
8:6 For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come unto my people?or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?  
8:7 Thenthe king Ahasuerus said unto Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew,Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they havehanged upon the gallows, because he laid his hand upon the Jews.
8:8 Write ye also for the Jews, as it liketh you, in the king's name,and seal it with the king's ring: for the writing which is written inthe king's name, and sealed with the king's ring, may no man reverse.
8:9 Then were the king's scribes called at that time in the thirdmonth, that is, the month Sivan, on the three and twentieth daythereof; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commandedunto the Jews, and to the lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers ofthe provinces which are from India unto Ethiopia, an hundred twentyand seven provinces, unto every province according to the writingthereof, and unto every people after their language, and to the Jewsaccording to their writing, and according to their language.
8:10 And he wrote in the king Ahasuerus' name, and sealed it with theking's ring, and sent letters by posts on horseback, and riders onmules, camels, and young dromedaries: 
8:11 Wherein the king grantedthe Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, andto stand for their life, to destroy, to slay and to cause to perish,all the power of the people and province that would assault them, bothlittle ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a prey, 
8:12 Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon thethirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
8:13 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in everyprovince was published unto all people, and that the Jews should beready against that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.
8:14 So the posts that rode upon mules and camels went out, beinghastened and pressed on by the king's commandment. And the decree wasgiven at Shushan the palace.
8:15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royalapparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with agarment of fine linen and purple: and the city of Shushan rejoiced andwas glad.
8:16 The Jews had light, and gladness, and joy, and honour.
8:17 And in every province, and in every city, whithersoever theking's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness,a feast and a good day. And many of the people of the land becameJews; for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.
9:1 Now in the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar, on thethirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandment and his decreedrew near to be put in execution, in the day that the enemies of theJews hoped to have power over them, (though it was turned to thecontrary, that the Jews had rule over them that hated them;) 
9:2 TheJews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all theprovinces of the king Ahasuerus, to lay hand on such as sought theirhurt: and no man could withstand them; for the fear of them fell uponall people.
9:3 And all the rulers of the provinces, and the lieutenants, and thedeputies, and officers of the king, helped the Jews; because the fearof Mordecai fell upon them.
9:4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame went outthroughout all the provinces: for this man Mordecai waxed greater andgreater.
9:5 Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the stroke of thesword, and slaughter, and destruction, and did what they would untothose that hated them.
9:6 And in Shushan the palace the Jews slew and destroyed five hundredmen.
9:7 And Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha, 
9:8 And Poratha, andAdalia, and Aridatha, 
9:9 And Parmashta, and Arisai, and Aridai, andVajezatha, 
9:10 The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemyof the Jews, slew they; but on the spoil laid they not their hand.
9:11 On that day the number of those that were slain in Shushan thepalace was brought before the king.
9:12 And the king said unto Esther the queen, The Jews have slain anddestroyed five hundred men in Shushan the palace, and the ten sons ofHaman; what have they done in the rest of the king's provinces? nowwhat is thy petition? and it shall be granted thee: or what is thyrequest further? and it shall be done.
9:13 Then said Esther, If it please the king, let it be granted to theJews which are in Shushan to do to morrow also according unto thisday's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows.
9:14 And the king commanded it so to be done: and the decree was givenat Shushan; and they hanged Haman's ten sons.
9:15 For the Jews that were in Shushan gathered themselves together onthe fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and slew three hundred menat Shushan; but on the prey they laid not their hand.
9:16 But the other Jews that were in the king's provinces gatheredthemselves together, and stood for their lives, and had rest fromtheir enemies, and slew of their foes seventy and five thousand, butthey laid not their hands on the prey, 
9:17 On the thirteenth day ofthe month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same rested they, andmade it a day of feasting and gladness.
9:18 But the Jews that were at Shushan assembled together on thethirteenth day thereof, and on the fourteenth thereof; and on thefifteenth day of the same they rested, and made it a day of feastingand gladness.
9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, that dwelt in the unwalledtowns, made the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness andfeasting, and a good day, and of sending portions one to another.
9:20 And Mordecai wrote these things, and sent letters unto all theJews that were in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, both nighand far, 
9:21 To stablish this among them, that they should keep thefourteenth day of the month Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same,yearly, 
9:22 As the days wherein the Jews rested from their enemies,and the month which was turned unto them from sorrow to joy, and frommourning into a good day: that they should make them days of feastingand joy, and of sending portions one to another, and gifts to thepoor.
9:23 And the Jews undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordecaihad written unto them; 
9:24 Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, theAgagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had devised against the Jews todestroy them, and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, to consume them, andto destroy them; 
9:25 But when Esther came before the king, hecommanded by letters that his wicked device, which he devised againstthe Jews, should return upon his own head, and that he and his sonsshould be hanged on the gallows.
9:26 Wherefore they called these days Purim after the name of Pur.Therefore for all the words of this letter, and of that which they hadseen concerning this matter, and which had come unto them, 
9:27 TheJews ordained, and took upon them, and upon their seed, and upon allsuch as joined themselves unto them, so as it should not fail, thatthey would keep these two days according to their writing, andaccording to their appointed time every year; 
9:28 And that these daysshould be remembered and kept throughout every generation, everyfamily, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purimshould not fail from among the Jews, nor the memorial of them perishfrom their seed.
9:29 Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai theJew, wrote with all authority, to confirm this second letter of Purim.
9:30 And he sent the letters unto all the Jews, to the hundred twentyand seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peaceand truth, 
9:31 To confirm these days of Purim in their timesappointed, according as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen hadenjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for theirseed, the matters of the fastings and their cry.
9:32 And the decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and itwas written in the book.
10:1 And the king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon theisles of the sea.
10:2 And all the acts of his power and of his might, and thedeclaration of the greatness of Mordecai, whereunto the king advancedhim, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kingsof Media and Persia?  
10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was next unto kingAhasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the multitude ofhis brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and speaking peace toall his seed.