1:1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which cameinto Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.
1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, 
1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, andBenjamin, 
1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
1:5 And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventysouls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.
1:6 And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.
1:7 And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increasedabundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the landwas filled with them.
1:8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.
1:9 And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children ofIsrael are more and mightier than we: 
1:10 Come on, let us deal wiselywith them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when therefalleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fightagainst us, and so get them up out of the land.
1:11 Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them withtheir burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom andRaamses.
1:12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied andgrew.And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.
1:13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve withrigour: 
1:14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, inmorter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: alltheir service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour.
1:15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which thename of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: 
1:16 Andhe said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, andsee them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: butif it be a daughter, then she shall live.
1:17 But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egyptcommanded them, but saved the men children alive.
1:18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said untothem, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men childrenalive?  
1:19 And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrewwomen are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and aredelivered ere the midwives come in unto them.
1:20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the peoplemultiplied, and waxed very mighty.
1:21 And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that hemade them houses.
1:22 And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that isborn ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall savealive.
2:1 And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife adaughter of Levi.
2:2 And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him thathe was a goodly child, she hid him three months.
2:3 And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark ofbulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the childtherein; and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink.
2:4 And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.
2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at theriver; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when shesaw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.
2:6 And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, thebabe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of theHebrews' children.
2:7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call tothee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child forthee?  
2:8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid wentand called the child's mother.
2:9 And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, andnurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the women tookthe child, and nursed it.
2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter,and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said,Because I drew him out of the water.
2:11 And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that hewent out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spiedan Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.
2:12 And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that therewas no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
2:13 And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of theHebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong,Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?  
2:14 And he said, Who made thee aprince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thoukilledst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thingis known.
2:15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. ButMoses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian:and he sat down by a well.
2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came anddrew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
2:17 And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood upand helped them, and watered their flock.
2:18 And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it thatye are come so soon to day?  
2:19 And they said, An Egyptian deliveredus out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough forus, and watered the flock.
2:20 And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it thatye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.
2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave MosesZipporah his daughter.
2:22 And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for hesaid, I have been a stranger in a strange land.
2:23 And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egyptdied: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, andthey cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.
2:24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenantwith Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
2:25 And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respectunto them.
3:1 Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priestof Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, andcame to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.
3:2 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire outof the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burnedwith fire, and the bush was not consumed.
3:3 And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight,why the bush is not burnt.
3:4 And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called untohim out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said,Here am I.
3:5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thyfeet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.
3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham,the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for hewas afraid to look upon God.
3:7 And the LORD said, I have surely seen the affliction of my peoplewhich are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of theirtaskmasters; for I know their sorrows; 
3:8 And I am come down todeliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them upout of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowingwith milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and theHittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, andthe Jebusites.
3:9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is comeunto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptiansoppress them.
3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thoumayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.
3:11 And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be atoken unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forththe people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.
3:13 And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children ofIsrael, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent meunto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I sayunto them?  
3:14 And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said,Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent meunto you.
3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto thechildren of Israel, the LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham,the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this ismy name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.
3:16 Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them,The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and ofJacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seenthat which is done to you in Egypt: 
3:17 And I have said, I will bringyou up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites,and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and theHivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.
3:18 And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thouand the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall sayunto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: and now let usgo, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that wemay sacrifice to the LORD our God.
3:19 And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, notby a mighty hand.
3:20 And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all mywonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he willlet you go.
3:21 And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians:and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty.
3:22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour, and of her thatsojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, andraiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon yourdaughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.
4:1 And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believeme, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will say, The LORD hath notappeared unto thee.
4:2 And the LORD said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And hesaid, A rod.
4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground,and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.
4:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it bythe tail. And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became arod in his hand: 
4:5 That they may believe that the LORD God of theirfathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,hath appeared unto thee.
4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand intothy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took itout, behold, his hand was leprous as snow.
4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put hishand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and,behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.
4:8 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neitherhearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe thevoice of the latter sign.
4:9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these twosigns, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of thewater of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water whichthou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land.
4:10 And Moses said unto the LORD, O my LORD, I am not eloquent,neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but Iam slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.
4:11 And the LORD said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or whomaketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I theLORD?  
4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teachthee what thou shalt say.
4:13 And he said, O my LORD, send, I pray thee, by the hand of himwhom thou wilt send.
4:14 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said,Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well.And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeththee, he will be glad in his heart.
4:15 And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and Iwill be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what yeshall do.
4:16 And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be,even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to himinstead of God.
4:17 And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shaltdo signs.
4:18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and saidunto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren whichare in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said toMoses, Go in peace.
4:19 And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt:for all the men are dead which sought thy life.
4:20 And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass,and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God inhis hand.
4:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, When thou goest to return intoEgypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I haveput in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, that he shall not letthe people go.
4:22 And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD, Israel ismy son, even my firstborn: 
4:23 And I say unto thee, Let my son go,that he may serve me: and if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I willslay thy son, even thy firstborn.
4:24 And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him,and sought to kill him.
4:25 Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of herson, and cast it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband artthou to me.
4:26 So he let him go: then she said, A bloody husband thou art,because of the circumcision.
4:27 And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses.And he went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.
4:28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him,and all the signs which he had commanded him.
4:29 And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders ofthe children of Israel: 
4:30 And Aaron spake all the words which theLORD had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of thepeople.
4:31 And the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD hadvisited the children of Israel, and that he had looked upon theiraffliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.
5:1 And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thussaith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold afeast unto me in the wilderness.
5:2 And Pharaoh said, Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice tolet Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.
5:3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go,we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert, and sacrifice untothe LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with thesword.
5:4 And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses andAaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens.
5:5 And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, andye make them rest from their burdens.
5:6 And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people,and their officers, saying, 
5:7 Ye shall no more give the people strawto make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw forthemselves.
5:8 And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, yeshall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof: for they beidle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.
5:9 Let there more work be laid upon the men, that they may labourtherein; and let them not regard vain words.
5:10 And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers,and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will notgive you straw.
5:11 Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of yourwork shall be diminished.
5:12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land ofEgypt to gather stubble instead of straw.
5:13 And the taskmasters hasted them, saying, Fulfil your works, yourdaily tasks, as when there was straw.
5:14 And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh'staskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, Whereforehave ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and today, as heretofore?  
5:15 Then the officers of the children of Israelcame and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus withthy servants?  
5:16 There is no straw given unto thy servants, andthey say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants are beaten; butthe fault is in thine own people.
5:17 But he said, Ye are idle, ye are idle: therefore ye say, Let usgo and do sacrifice to the LORD.
5:18 Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be givenyou, yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks.
5:19 And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they werein evil case, after it was said, Ye shall not minish ought from yourbricks of your daily task.
5:20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they cameforth from Pharaoh: 
5:21 And they said unto them, The LORD look uponyou, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in theeyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword intheir hand to slay us.
5:22 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hastthou so evil entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me?
5:23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath doneevil to this people; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.
6:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will doto Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with astrong hand shall he drive them out of his land.
6:2 And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD: 
6:3 And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the nameof God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.
6:4 And I have also established my covenant with them, to give themthe land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they werestrangers.
6:5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whomthe Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.
6:6 Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and Iwill bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I willrid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretchedout arm, and with great judgments: 
6:7 And I will take you to me for apeople, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I am theLORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of theEgyptians.
6:8 And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I didswear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will giveit you for an heritage: I am the LORD.
6:9 And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkenednot unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
6:10 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
6:11 Go in, speak untoPharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out ofhis land.
6:12 And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children ofIsrael have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, whoam of uncircumcised lips?  
6:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses and untoAaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and untoPharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the landof Egypt.
6:14 These be the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reubenthe firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: thesebe the families of Reuben.
6:15 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are thefamilies of Simeon.
6:16 And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to theirgenerations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of thelife of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.
6:17 The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to theirfamilies.
6:18 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel:and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and threeyears.
6:19 And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the familiesof Levi according to their generations.
6:20 And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and shebare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were anhundred and thirty and seven years.
6:21 And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
6:22 And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
6:23 And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister ofNaashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, andIthamar.
6:24 And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: theseare the families of the Korhites.
6:25 And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putielto wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathersof the Levites according to their families.
6:26 These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring outthe children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to theirarmies.
6:27 These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring outthe children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.
6:28 And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spake unto Moses inthe land of Egypt, 
6:29 That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, I amthe LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say untothee.
6:30 And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcisedlips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?  
7:1 And the LORD saidunto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thybrother shall be thy prophet.
7:2 Thou shalt speak all that I command thee: and Aaron thy brothershall speak unto Pharaoh, that he send the children of Israel out ofhis land.
7:3 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and mywonders in the land of Egypt.
7:4 But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, that I may lay my handupon Egypt, and bring forth mine armies, and my people the children ofIsrael, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.
7:5 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretchforth mine hand upon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel fromamong them.
7:6 And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.
7:7 And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and threeyears old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.
7:8 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
7:9 WhenPharaoh shall speak unto you, saying, Shew a miracle for you: thenthou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh,and it shall become a serpent.
7:10 And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as theLORD had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, andbefore his servants, and it became a serpent.
7:11 Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now themagicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with theirenchantments.
7:12 For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents:but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.
7:13 And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, that he hearkened not unto them;as the LORD had said.
7:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, herefuseth to let the people go.
7:15 Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth out unto thewater; and thou shalt stand by the river's brink against he come; andthe rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand.
7:16 And thou shalt say unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hathsent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me inthe wilderness: and, behold, hitherto thou wouldest not hear.
7:17 Thus saith the LORD, In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD:behold, I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waterswhich are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
7:18 And the fish that is in the river shall die, and the river shallstink; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of theriver.
7:19 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, andstretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams,upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools ofwater, that they may become blood; and that there may be bloodthroughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and invessels of stone.
7:20 And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and he liftedup the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sightof Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters thatwere in the river were turned to blood.
7:21 And the fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, andthe Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river; and there wasblood throughout all the land of Egypt.
7:22 And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: andPharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as theLORD had said.
7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he sethis heart to this also.
7:24 And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water todrink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.
7:25 And seven days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smittenthe river.
8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him,Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.
8:2 And if thou refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all thyborders with frogs: 
8:3 And the river shall bring forth frogsabundantly, which shall go up and come into thine house, and into thybedchamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, andupon thy people, and into thine ovens, and into thy kneadingtroughs:
8:4 And the frogs shall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, andupon all thy servants.
8:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch forth thinehand with thy rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over theponds, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.
8:6 And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and thefrogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
8:7 And the magicians did so with their enchantments, and brought upfrogs upon the land of Egypt.
8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Intreat theLORD, that he may take away the frogs from me, and from my people; andI will let the people go, that they may do sacrifice unto the LORD.
8:9 And Moses said unto Pharaoh, Glory over me: when shall I intreatfor thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, to destroy thefrogs from thee and thy houses, that they may remain in the riveronly?  
8:10 And he said, To morrow. And he said, Be it according tothy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the LORDour God.
8:11 And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, andfrom thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the riveronly.
8:12 And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried untothe LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.
8:13 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and the frogsdied out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields.
8:14 And they gathered them together upon heaps: and the land stank.
8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened hisheart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.
8:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thyrod, and smite the dust of the land, that it may become licethroughout all the land of Egypt.
8:17 And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod,and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and inbeast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land ofEgypt.
8:18 And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forthlice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, and upon beast.
8:19 Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God:and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; asthe LORD had said.
8:20 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, andstand before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say untohim, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.
8:21 Else, if thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will sendswarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people,and into thy houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full ofswarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.
8:22 And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which mypeople dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thoumayest know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth.
8:23 And I will put a division between my people and thy people: tomorrow shall this sign be.
8:24 And the LORD did so; and there came a grievous swarm of fliesinto the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses, and into allthe land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm offlies.
8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye,sacrifice to your God in the land.
8:26 And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrificethe abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God: lo, shall wesacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and willthey not stone us?  
8:27 We will go three days' journey into thewilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as he shall command us.
8:28 And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to theLORD your God in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away:intreat for me.
8:29 And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will intreatthe LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from hisservants, and from his people, to morrow: but let not Pharaoh dealdeceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to theLORD.
8:30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.
8:31 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and he removedthe swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from hispeople; there remained not one.
8:32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither wouldhe let the people go.
9:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him,Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that theymay serve me.
9:2 For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold them still, 
9:3 Behold, the hand of the LORD is upon thy cattle which is in the field,upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen, andupon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous murrain.
9:4 And the LORD shall sever between the cattle of Israel and thecattle of Egypt: and there shall nothing die of all that is thechildren's of Israel.
9:5 And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, To morrow the LORDshall do this thing in the land.
9:6 And the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle ofEgypt died: but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one.
9:7 And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not one of the cattle ofthe Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he didnot let the people go.
9:8 And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfulsof ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heavenin the sight of Pharaoh.
9:9 And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shallbe a boil breaking forth with blains upon man, and upon beast,throughout all the land of Egypt.
9:10 And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; andMoses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breakingforth with blains upon man, and upon beast.
9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of theboils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all theEgyptians.
9:12 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened notunto them; as the LORD had spoken unto Moses.
9:13 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, andstand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of theHebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.
9:14 For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, andupon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know thatthere is none like me in all the earth.
9:15 For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite thee and thypeople with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off from the earth.
9:16 And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for toshew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared throughout allthe earth.
9:17 As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wiltnot let them go?  
9:18 Behold, to morrow about this time I will causeit to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt sincethe foundation thereof even until now.
9:19 Send therefore now, and gather thy cattle, and all that thou hastin the field; for upon every man and beast which shall be found in thefield, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down uponthem, and they shall die.
9:20 He that feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaohmade his servants and his cattle flee into the houses: 
9:21 And hethat regarded not the word of the LORD left his servants and hiscattle in the field.
9:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch forth thine hand towardheaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, andupon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land ofEgypt.
9:23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and the LORDsent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground; and theLORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.
9:24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous,such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since itbecame a nation.
9:25 And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that wasin the field, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of thefield, and brake every tree of the field.
9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were,was there no hail.
9:27 And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said untothem, I have sinned this time: the LORD is righteous, and I and mypeople are wicked.
9:28 Intreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mightythunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall stay nolonger.
9:29 And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, Iwill spread abroad my hands unto the LORD; and the thunder shallcease, neither shall there be any more hail; that thou mayest know howthat the earth is the LORD's.
9:30 But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yetfear the LORD God.
9:31 And the flax and the barley was smitten: for the barley was inthe ear, and the flax was bolled.
9:32 But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they were notgrown up.
9:33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroadhis hands unto the LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and therain was not poured upon the earth.
9:34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunderswere ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and hisservants.
9:35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let thechildren of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.
10:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh: for I havehardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shewthese my signs before him: 
10:2 And that thou mayest tell in the earsof thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought in Egypt,and my signs which I have done among them; that ye may know how that Iam the LORD.
10:3 And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thussaith the LORD God of the Hebrews, How long wilt thou refuse to humblethyself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me.
10:4 Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, to morrow willI bring the locusts into thy coast: 
10:5 And they shall cover the faceof the earth, that one cannot be able to see the earth: and they shalleat the residue of that which is escaped, which remaineth unto youfrom the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out ofthe field: 
10:6 And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of allthy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; which neither thyfathers, nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that theywere upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself, and went outfrom Pharaoh.
10:7 And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man bea snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD theirGod: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?  
10:8 And Moses andAaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, Go,serve the LORD your God: but who are they that shall go?  
10:9 AndMoses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sonsand with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go;for we must hold a feast unto the LORD.
10:10 And he said unto them, Let the LORD be so with you, as I willlet you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before you.
10:11 Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the LORD; for that yedid desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
10:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over theland of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land ofEgypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hathleft.
10:13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, andthe LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all thatnight; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
10:14 And the locust went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested inall the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them therewere no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
10:15 For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the landwas darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all thefruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not anygreen thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through allthe land of Egypt.
10:16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, Ihave sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.
10:17 Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, andintreat the LORD your God, that he may take away from me this deathonly.
10:18 And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.
10:19 And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind, which took awaythe locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not onelocust in all the coasts of Egypt.
10:20 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not letthe children of Israel go.
10:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand towardheaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, evendarkness which may be felt.
10:22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there wasa thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days: 
10:23 They sawnot one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: butall the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.
10:24 And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, Go ye, serve the LORD;only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your little onesalso go with you.
10:25 And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burntofferings, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God.
10:26 Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not an hoof beleft behind; for thereof must we take to serve the LORD our God; andwe know not with what we must serve the LORD, until we come thither.
10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let themgo.
10:28 And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed tothyself, see my face no more; for in that day thou seest my face thoushalt die.
10:29 And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face againno more.
11:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague moreupon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence:when he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hencealtogether.
11:2 Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow ofhis neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver andjewels of gold.
11:3 And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of theEgyptians.Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in thesight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.
11:4 And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, About midnight will I go outinto the midst of Egypt: 
11:5 And all the firstborn in the land ofEgypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon histhrone, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind themill; and all the firstborn of beasts.
11:6 And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt,such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more.
11:7 But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog movehis tongue, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORDdoth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel.
11:8 And all these thy servants shall come down unto me, and bow downthemselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people thatfollow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went out fromPharaoh in a great anger.
11:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you;that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.
11:10 And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: andthe LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let thechildren of Israel go out of his land.
12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egyptsaying, 
12:2 This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: itshall be the first month of the year to you.
12:3 Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In thetenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb,according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house: 
12:4 Andif the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbournext unto his house take it according to the number of the souls;every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb.
12:5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year: yeshall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats: 
12:6 And ye shallkeep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: and the wholeassembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.
12:7 And they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sideposts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eatit.
12:8 And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, andunleavened bread; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it.
12:9 Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast withfire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance thereof.
12:10 And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; andthat which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.
12:11 And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins girded, your shoes onyour feet, and your staff in your hand; and ye shall eat it in haste:it is the LORD's passover.
12:12 For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and willsmite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; andagainst all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment: I am the LORD.
12:13 And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses whereye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plagueshall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.
12:14 And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keepit a feast to the LORD throughout your generations; ye shall keep it afeast by an ordinance for ever.
12:15 Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day yeshall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eatethleavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soulshall be cut off from Israel.
12:16 And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation, and inthe seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; no mannerof work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat,that only may be done of you.
12:17 And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in thisselfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt:therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by anordinance for ever.
12:18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even,ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of themonth at even.
12:19 Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: forwhosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cutoff from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or bornin the land.
12:20 Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall yeeat unleavened bread.
12:21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said untothem, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families, andkill the passover.
12:22 And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the bloodthat is in the bason, and strike the lintel and the two side postswith the blood that is in the bason; and none of you shall go out atthe door of his house until the morning.
12:23 For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and whenhe seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, theLORD will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer tocome in unto your houses to smite you.
12:24 And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and tothy sons for ever.
12:25 And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which theLORD will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keepthis service.
12:26 And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say untoyou, What mean ye by this service?  
12:27 That ye shall say, It is thesacrifice of the LORD's passover, who passed over the houses of thechildren of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, anddelivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.
12:28 And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LORD hadcommanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
12:29 And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all thefirstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that saton his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in thedungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.
12:30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, andall the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt; for there wasnot a house where there was not one dead.
12:31 And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up,and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children ofIsrael; and go, serve the LORD, as ye have said.
12:32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and begone; and bless me also.
12:33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they mightsend them out of the land in haste; for they said, We be all dead men.
12:34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, theirkneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.
12:35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses;and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels ofgold, and raiment: 
12:36 And the LORD gave the people favour in thesight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them such things asthey required. And they spoiled the Egyptians.
12:37 And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth,about six hundred thousand on foot that were men, beside children.
12:38 And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, andherds, even very much cattle.
12:39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they broughtforth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened; because they were thrustout of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared forthemselves any victual.
12:40 Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt inEgypt, was four hundred and thirty years.
12:41 And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirtyyears, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts ofthe LORD went out from the land of Egypt.
12:42 It is a night to be much observed unto the LORD for bringingthem out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of the LORD to beobserved of all the children of Israel in their generations.
12:43 And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance ofthe passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof: 
12:44 But everyman's servant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcisedhim, then shall he eat thereof.
12:45 A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.
12:46 In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth oughtof the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bonethereof.
12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
12:48 And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep thepassover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then lethim come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in theland: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.
12:49 One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto the strangerthat sojourneth among you.
12:50 Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Mosesand Aaron, so did they.
12:51 And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the LORD did bringthe children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
13:2 Sanctify unto me allthe firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the children ofIsrael, both of man and of beast: it is mine.
13:3 And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day, in which yecame out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength ofhand the LORD brought you out from this place: there shall no leavenedbread be eaten.
13:4 This day came ye out in the month Abib.
13:5 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land ofthe Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites,and the Jebusites, which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee, aland flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt keep this service inthis month.
13:6 Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, and in the seventhday shall be a feast to the LORD.
13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall noleavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seenwith thee in all thy quarters.
13:8 And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is donebecause of that which the LORD did unto me when I came forth out ofEgypt.
13:9 And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for amemorial between thine eyes, that the LORD's law may be in thy mouth:for with a strong hand hath the LORD brought thee out of Egypt.
13:10 Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from yearto year.
13:11 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land ofthe Canaanites, as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers, and shallgive it thee, 
13:12 That thou shalt set apart unto the LORD all thatopeneth the matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast whichthou hast; the males shall be the LORD's.
13:13 And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb; andif thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck: and allthe firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.
13:14 And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come,saying, What is this? that thou shalt say unto him, By strength ofhand the LORD brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage:
13:15 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, thatthe LORD slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both thefirstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice tothe LORD all that openeth the matrix, being males; but all thefirstborn of my children I redeem.
13:16 And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontletsbetween thine eyes: for by strength of hand the LORD brought us forthout of Egypt.
13:17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, thatGod led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines,although that was near; for God said, Lest peradventure the peoplerepent when they see war, and they return to Egypt: 
13:18 But God ledthe people about, through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea:and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt.
13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitlysworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; andye shall carry up my bones away hence with you.
13:20 And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham,in the edge of the wilderness.
13:21 And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, tolead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give themlight; to go by day and night: 
13:22 He took not away the pillar ofthe cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before thepeople.
14:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
14:2 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth,between Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shallye encamp by the sea.
14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They areentangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in.
14:4 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow afterthem; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host; thatthe Egyptians may know that I am the LORD. And they did so.
14:5 And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and theheart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people,and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go fromserving us?  
14:6 And he made ready his chariot, and took his peoplewith him: 
14:7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all thechariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them.
14:8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and hepursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel wentout with an high hand.
14:9 But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariotsof Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook themencamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.
14:10 And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted uptheir eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and theywere sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD.
14:11 And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt,hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thoudealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?  
14:12 Is not thisthe word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that wemay serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve theEgyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.
14:13 And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, andsee the salvation of the LORD, which he will shew to you to day: forthe Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again nomore for ever.
14:14 The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace.
14:15 And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me?speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward: 
14:16 Butlift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, anddivide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground throughthe midst of the sea.
14:17 And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, andthey shall follow them: and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh, andupon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.
14:18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I havegotten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon hishorsemen.
14:19 And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel,removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went frombefore their face, and stood behind them: 
14:20 And it came betweenthe camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloudand darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these: so that theone came not near the other all the night.
14:21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORDcaused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, andmade the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
14:22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea uponthe dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their righthand, and on their left.
14:23 And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midstof the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.
14:24 And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD lookedunto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of thecloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, 
14:25 And took offtheir chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that theEgyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORDfighteth for them against the Egyptians.
14:26 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over thesea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon theirchariots, and upon their horsemen.
14:27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the seareturned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptiansfled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst ofthe sea.
14:28 And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and thehorsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea afterthem; there remained not so much as one of them.
14:29 But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst ofthe sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, andon their left.
14:30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of theEgyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore.
14:31 And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon theEgyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, andhis servant Moses.
15:1 Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto theLORD, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the LORD, for he hathtriumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into thesea.
15:2 The LORD is my strength and song, and he is become my salvation:he is my God, and I will prepare him an habitation; my father's God,and I will exalt him.
15:3 The LORD is a man of war: the LORD is his name.
15:4 Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: hischosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.
15:5 The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as astone.
15:6 Thy right hand, O LORD, is become glorious in power: thy righthand, O LORD, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.
15:7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrownthem that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, whichconsumed them as stubble.
15:8 And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gatheredtogether, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths werecongealed in the heart of the sea.
15:9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide thespoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, myhand shall destroy them.
15:10 Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sankas lead in the mighty waters.
15:11 Who is like unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee,glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?  
15:12 Thoustretchedst out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.
15:13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hastredeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holyhabitation.
15:14 The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold onthe inhabitants of Palestina.
15:15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab,trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaanshall melt away.
15:16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thinearm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass over, OLORD, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.
15:17 Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain ofthine inheritance, in the place, O LORD, which thou hast made for theeto dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O LORD, which thy hands haveestablished.
15:18 The LORD shall reign for ever and ever.
15:19 For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with hishorsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of thesea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in themidst of the sea.
15:20 And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrelin her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels andwith dances.
15:21 And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hathtriumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into thesea.
15:22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out intothe wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness,and found no water.
15:23 And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the watersof Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of it was calledMarah.
15:24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall wedrink?  
15:25 And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed him atree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were madesweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there heproved them, 
15:26 And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to thevoice of the LORD thy God, and wilt do that which is right in hissight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all hisstatutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I havebrought upon the Egyptians: for I am the LORD that healeth thee.
15:27 And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, andthreescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.
16:1 And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregationof the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which isbetween Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month aftertheir departing out of the land of Egypt.
16:2 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmuredagainst Moses and Aaron in the wilderness: 
16:3 And the children ofIsrael said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of theLORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots, and when wedid eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into thiswilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.
16:4 Then said the LORD unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread fromheaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rateevery day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, orno.
16:5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shallprepare that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much asthey gather daily.
16:6 And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, Ateven, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from theland of Egypt: 
16:7 And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory ofthe LORD; for that he heareth your murmurings against the LORD: andwhat are we, that ye murmur against us?  
16:8 And Moses said, Thisshall be, when the LORD shall give you in the evening flesh to eat,and in the morning bread to the full; for that the LORD heareth yourmurmurings which ye murmur against him: and what are we? yourmurmurings are not against us, but against the LORD.
16:9 And Moses spake unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of thechildren of Israel, Come near before the LORD: for he hath heard yourmurmurings.
16:10 And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregationof the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness,and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.
16:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
16:12 I have heard themurmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At evenye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread;and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God.
16:13 And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, andcovered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.
16:14 And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face ofthe wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoarfrost on the ground.
16:15 And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one toanother, It is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses saidunto them, This is the bread which the LORD hath given you to eat.
16:16 This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, Gather of itevery man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according tothe number of your persons; take ye every man for them which are inhis tents.
16:17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, someless.
16:18 And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered muchhad nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; theygathered every man according to his eating.
16:19 And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning.
16:20 Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of themleft of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moseswas wroth with them.
16:21 And they gathered it every morning, every man according to hiseating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.
16:22 And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twiceas much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of thecongregation came and told Moses.
16:23 And he said unto them, This is that which the LORD hath said, Tomorrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the LORD: bake that whichye will bake to day, and seethe that ye will seethe; and that whichremaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning.
16:24 And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it didnot stink, neither was there any worm therein.
16:25 And Moses said, Eat that to day; for to day is a sabbath untothe LORD: to day ye shall not find it in the field.
16:26 Six days ye shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which isthe sabbath, in it there shall be none.
16:27 And it came to pass, that there went out some of the people onthe seventh day for to gather, and they found none.
16:28 And the LORD said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep mycommandments and my laws?  
16:29 See, for that the LORD hath given youthe sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of twodays; abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his placeon the seventh day.
16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day.
16:31 And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna: and itwas like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafersmade with honey.
16:32 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commandeth,Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may seethe bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I broughtyou forth from the land of Egypt.
16:33 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omer full ofmanna therein, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for yourgenerations.
16:34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before theTestimony, to be kept.
16:35 And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years, until theycame to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto theborders of the land of Canaan.
16:36 Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.
17:1 And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed fromthe wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to thecommandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and there was nowater for the people to drink.
17:2 Wherefore the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give uswater that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye withme? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?  
17:3 And the people thirstedthere for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said,Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to killus and our children and our cattle with thirst?  
17:4 And Moses criedunto the LORD, saying, What shall I do unto this people? they bealmost ready to stone me.
17:5 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and takewith thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotestthe river, take in thine hand, and go.
17:6 Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb;and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it,that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the eldersof Israel.
17:7 And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, becauseof the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted theLORD, saying, Is the LORD among us, or not?  
17:8 Then came Amalek,and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
17:9 And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fightwith Amalek: to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with therod of God in mine hand.
17:10 So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek:and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.
17:11 And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israelprevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.
17:12 But Moses hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put itunder him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands,the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and hishands were steady until the going down of the sun.
17:13 And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge ofthe sword.
17:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in abook, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly putout the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.
17:15 And Moses built an altar, and called the name of itJehovahnissi: 
17:16 For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn that theLORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.
18:1 When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard ofall that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and thatthe LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt; 
18:2 Then Jethro, Moses'father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
18:3 And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; forhe said, I have been an alien in a strange land: 
18:4 And the name ofthe other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was minehelp, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh: 
18:5 And Jethro,Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses intothe wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: 
18:6 And hesaid unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thywife, and her two sons with her.
18:7 And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance,and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and theycame into the tent.
18:8 And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done untoPharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travailthat had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.
18:9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had doneto Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.
18:10 And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you outof the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hathdelivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
18:11 Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in thething wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.
18:12 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering andsacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, toeat bread with Moses' father in law before God.
18:13 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge thepeople: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto theevening.
18:14 And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people,he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittestthou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning untoeven?  
18:15 And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the peoplecome unto me to enquire of God: 
18:16 When they have a matter, theycome unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make themknow the statutes of God, and his laws.
18:17 And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thoudoest is not good.
18:18 Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that iswith thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able toperform it thyself alone.
18:19 Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and Godshall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thoumayest bring the causes unto God: 
18:20 And thou shalt teach themordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the way wherein they mustwalk, and the work that they must do.
18:21 Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, suchas fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such overthem, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers offifties, and rulers of tens: 
18:22 And let them judge the people atall seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bringunto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it beeasier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee.
18:23 If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thoushalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to theirplace in peace.
18:24 So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and didall that he had said.
18:25 And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them headsover the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers offifties, and rulers of tens.
18:26 And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes theybrought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
18:27 And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way intohis own land.
19:1 In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forthout of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wildernessof Sinai.
19:2 For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desertof Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel campedbefore the mount.
19:3 And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out ofthe mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, andtell the children of Israel; 
19:4 Ye have seen what I did unto theEgyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you untomyself.
19:5 Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep mycovenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above allpeople: for all the earth is mine: 
19:6 And ye shall be unto me akingdom of priests, and an holy nation.These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children ofIsrael.
19:7 And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laidbefore their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.
19:8 And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORDhath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the peopleunto the LORD.
19:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thickcloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believethee for ever.And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.
19:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctifythem to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes, 
19:11 Andbe ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will comedown in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.
19:12 And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying,Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touchthe border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put todeath: 
19:13 There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely bestoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall notlive: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.
19:14 And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, andsanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.
19:15 And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day:come not at your wives.
19:16 And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that therewere thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, andthe voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people thatwas in the camp trembled.
19:17 And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet withGod; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.
19:18 And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORDdescended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smokeof a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.
19:19 And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louderand louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.
19:20 And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of themount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moseswent up.
19:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lestthey break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.
19:22 And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctifythemselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.
19:23 And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mountSinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, andsanctify it.
19:24 And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shaltcome up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and thepeople break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forthupon them.
19:25 So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.
20:1 And God spake all these words, saying, 
20:2 I am the LORD thyGod, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of thehouse of bondage.
20:3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
20:4 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likenessof any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath,or that is in the water under the earth.
20:5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for Ithe LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of thefathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of themthat hate me; 
20:6 And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that loveme, and keep my commandments.
20:7 Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for theLORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
20:8 Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
20:9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: 
20:10 But theseventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt notdo any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, northy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thygates: 
20:11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea,and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore theLORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.
20:12 Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long uponthe land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
20:13 Thou shalt not kill.
20:14 Thou shalt not commit adultery.
20:15 Thou shalt not steal.
20:16 Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.
20:17 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covetthy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor hisox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's.
20:18 And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, andthe noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when thepeople saw it, they removed, and stood afar off.
20:19 And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear:but let not God speak with us, lest we die.
20:20 And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come toprove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sinnot.
20:21 And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto thethick darkness where God was.
20:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto thechildren of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you fromheaven.
20:23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye makeunto you gods of gold.
20:24 An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrificethereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, andthine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come untothee, and I will bless thee.
20:25 And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not buildit of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hastpolluted it.
20:26 Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thynakedness be not discovered thereon.
21:1 Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them.
21:2 If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and inthe seventh he shall go out free for nothing.
21:3 If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he weremarried, then his wife shall go out with him.
21:4 If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sonsor daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and heshall go out by himself.
21:5 And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife,and my children; I will not go out free: 
21:6 Then his master shallbring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, orunto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with anaul; and he shall serve him for ever.
21:7 And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall notgo out as the menservants do.
21:8 If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself,then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nationhe shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.
21:9 And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with herafter the manner of daughters.
21:10 If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her dutyof marriage, shall he not diminish.
21:11 And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go outfree without money.
21:12 He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put todeath.
21:13 And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand;then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.
21:14 But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay himwith guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.
21:15 And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surelyput to death.
21:16 And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be foundin his hand, he shall surely be put to death.
21:17 And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely beput to death.
21:18 And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone,or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 
21:19 If herise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smotehim be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shallcause him to be thoroughly healed.
21:20 And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and hedie under his hand; he shall be surely punished.
21:21 Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not bepunished: for he is his money.
21:22 If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruitdepart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surelypunished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and heshall pay as the judges determine.
21:23 And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life,
21:24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
21:25 Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
21:26 And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of hismaid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake.
21:27 And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant'stooth; he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.
21:28 If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shallbe surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner ofthe ox shall be quit.
21:29 But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, andit hath been testified to his owner, and he hath not kept him in, butthat he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and hisowner also shall be put to death.
21:30 If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give forthe ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.
21:31 Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, accordingto this judgment shall it be done unto him.
21:32 If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant; he shallgive unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall bestoned.
21:33 And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit, andnot cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein; 
21:34 The owner of thepit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and thedead beast shall be his.
21:35 And if one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shallsell the live ox, and divide the money of it; and the dead ox alsothey shall divide.
21:36 Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past,and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; andthe dead shall be his own.
22:1 If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it;he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
22:2 If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die,there shall no blood be shed for him.
22:3 If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him;for he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shallbe sold for his theft.
22:4 If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it beox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.
22:5 If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shallput in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the bestof his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he makerestitution.
22:6 If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks ofcorn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; hethat kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.
22:7 If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep,and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, lethim pay double.
22:8 If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall bebrought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto hisneighbour's goods.
22:9 For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, forsheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing which anotherchallengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before thejudges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double untohis neighbour.
22:10 If a man deliver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or asheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away,no man seeing it: 
22:11 Then shall an oath of the LORD be between themboth, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbour's goods; andthe owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not make it good.
22:12 And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto theowner thereof.
22:13 If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, andhe shall not make good that which was torn.
22:14 And if a man borrow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, ordie, the owner thereof being not with it, he shall surely make itgood.
22:15 But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good:if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.
22:16 And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie withher, he shall surely endow her to be his wife.
22:17 If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall paymoney according to the dowry of virgins.
22:18 Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.
22:19 Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.
22:20 He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, heshall be utterly destroyed.
22:21 Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye werestrangers in the land of Egypt.
22:22 Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.
22:23 If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, Iwill surely hear their cry; 
22:24 And my wrath shall wax hot, and Iwill kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and yourchildren fatherless.
22:25 If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee,thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon himusury.
22:26 If thou at all take thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thoushalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down: 
22:27 For thatis his covering only, it is his raiment for his skin: wherein shall hesleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I willhear; for I am gracious.
22:28 Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thypeople.
22:29 Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, andof thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.
22:30 Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep:seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt giveit me.
22:31 And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat any fleshthat is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.
23:1 Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with thewicked to be an unrighteous witness.
23:2 Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thouspeak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment: 
23:3 Neithershalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.
23:4 If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shaltsurely bring it back to him again.
23:5 If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under hisburden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help withhim.
23:6 Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.
23:7 Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteousslay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.
23:8 And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, andperverteth the words of the righteous.
23:9 Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart ofa stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
23:10 And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in thefruits thereof: 
23:11 But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest andlie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leavethe beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal withthy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.
23:12 Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thoushalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thyhandmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.
23:13 And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: andmake no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard outof thy mouth.
23:14 Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.
23:15 Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eatunleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the timeappointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: andnone shall appear before me empty:) 
23:16 And the feast of harvest,the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: andthe feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, when thouhast gathered in thy labours out of the field.
23:17 Three items in the year all thy males shall appear before theLORD God.
23:18 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavenedbread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.
23:19 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring intothe house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in hismother's milk.
23:20 Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way,and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.
23:21 Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he willnot pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.
23:22 But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that Ispeak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversaryunto thine adversaries.
23:23 For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto theAmorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites,the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.
23:24 Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor doafter their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quitebreak down their images.
23:25 And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thybread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst ofthee.
23:26 There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thyland: the number of thy days I will fulfil.
23:27 I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the peopleto whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn theirbacks unto thee.
23:28 And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out theHivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.
23:29 I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest theland become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply againstthee.
23:30 By little and little I will drive them out from before thee,until thou be increased, and inherit the land.
23:31 And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea ofthe Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I willdeliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shaltdrive them out before thee.
23:32 Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
23:33 They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sinagainst me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snareunto thee.
24:1 And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron,Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship yeafar off.
24:2 And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but they shall not comenigh; neither shall the people go up with him.
24:3 And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, andall the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, andsaid, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.
24:4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early inthe morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars,according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
24:5 And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offeredburnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.
24:6 And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basons; and halfof the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
24:7 And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience ofthe people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, andbe obedient.
24:8 And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, andsaid, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made withyou concerning all these words.
24:9 Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy ofthe elders of Israel: 
24:10 And they saw the God of Israel: and therewas under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and asit were the body of heaven in his clearness.
24:11 And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not hishand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.
24:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, andbe there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, andcommandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.
24:13 And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went upinto the mount of God.
24:14 And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we comeagain unto you: and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any manhave any matters to do, let him come unto them.
24:15 And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.
24:16 And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloudcovered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out ofthe midst of the cloud.
24:17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fireon the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.
24:18 And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up intothe mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.
25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
25:2 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man thatgiveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.
25:3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, andsilver, and brass, 
25:4 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and finelinen, and goats' hair, 
25:5 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'skins, and shittim wood, 
25:6 Oil for the light, spices for anointingoil, and for sweet incense, 
25:7 Onyx stones, and stones to be set inthe ephod, and in the breastplate.
25:8 And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.
25:9 According to all that I shew thee, after the pattern of thetabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even soshall ye make it.
25:10 And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and ahalf shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadththereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
25:11 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and withoutshalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold roundabout.
25:12 And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them inthe four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side ofit, and two rings in the other side of it.
25:13 And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay themwith gold.
25:14 And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of theark, that the ark may be borne with them.
25:15 The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not betaken from it.
25:16 And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall givethee.
25:17 And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and ahalf shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadththereof.
25:18 And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shaltthou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.
25:19 And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on theother end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on thetwo ends thereof.
25:20 And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high,covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall lookone to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubimsbe.
25:21 And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in theark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.
25:22 And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with theefrom above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which areupon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee incommandment unto the children of Israel.
25:23 Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shallbe the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubitand a half the height thereof.
25:24 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto acrown of gold round about.
25:25 And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth roundabout, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof roundabout.
25:26 And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the ringsin the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.
25:27 Over against the border shall the rings be for places of thestaves to bear the table.
25:28 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay themwith gold, that the table may be borne with them.
25:29 And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, andcovers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shaltthou make them.
25:30 And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway.
25:31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten workshall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls,his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.
25:32 And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; threebranches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches ofthe candlestick out of the other side: 
25:33 Three bowls made likeunto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowlsmade like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so inthe six branches that come out of the candlestick.
25:34 And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like untoalmonds, with their knops and their flowers.
25:35 And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and aknop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches ofthe same, according to the six branches that proceed out of thecandlestick.
25:36 Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all itshall be one beaten work of pure gold.
25:37 And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shalllight the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it.
25:38 And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be ofpure gold.
25:39 Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all thesevessels.
25:40 And look that thou make them after their pattern, which wasshewed thee in the mount.
26:1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of finetwined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims ofcunning work shalt thou make them.
26:2 The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, andthe breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtainsshall have one measure.
26:3 The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; andother five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
26:4 And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the onecurtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thoumake in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of thesecond.
26:5 Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loopsshalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling ofthe second; that the loops may take hold one of another.
26:6 And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtainstogether with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle.
26:7 And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering uponthe tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.
26:8 The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadthof one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all ofone measure.
26:9 And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and sixcurtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in theforefront of the tabernacle.
26:10 And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtainthat is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of thecurtain which coupleth the second.
26:11 And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the tachesinto the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.
26:12 And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, thehalf curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of thetabernacle.
26:13 And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side ofthat which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, itshall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on thatside, to cover it.
26:14 And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyedred, and a covering above of badgers' skins.
26:15 And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim woodstanding up.
26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and ahalf shall be the breadth of one board.
26:17 Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one againstanother: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
26:18 And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boardson the south side southward.
26:19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twentyboards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and twosockets under another board for his two tenons.
26:20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north sidethere shall be twenty boards: 
26:21 And their forty sockets of silver;two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
26:22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make sixboards.
26:23 And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernaclein the two sides.
26:24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall becoupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it befor them both; they shall be for the two corners.
26:25 And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver,sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets underanother board.
26:26 And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards ofthe one side of the tabernacle, 
26:27 And five bars for the boards ofthe other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of theside of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.
26:28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach fromend to end.
26:29 And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make theirrings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the barswith gold.
26:30 And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashionthereof which was shewed thee in the mount.
26:31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, andfine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made:
26:32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim woodoverlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the foursockets of silver.
26:33 And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thoumayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: andthe vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the mostholy.
26:34 And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimonyin the most holy place.
26:35 And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and thecandlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacletoward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.
26:36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, ofblue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought withneedlework.
26:37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittimwood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold:and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.
27:1 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long,and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the heightthereof shall be three cubits.
27:2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four cornersthereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay itwith brass.
27:3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and hisshovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all thevessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.
27:4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and uponthe net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof.
27:5 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath,that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.
27:6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood,and overlay them with brass.
27:7 And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shallbe upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.
27:8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee inthe mount, so shall they make it.
27:9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the southside southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twinedlinen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 
27:10 And the twentypillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooksof the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
27:11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall behangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and theirtwenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets ofsilver.
27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall behangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
27:13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall befifty cubits.
27:14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits:their pillars three, and their sockets three.
27:15 And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: theirpillars three, and their sockets three.
27:16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twentycubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen,wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and theirsockets four.
27:17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted withsilver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass.
27:18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and thebreadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twinedlinen, and their sockets of brass.
27:19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof,and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be ofbrass.
27:20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bringthee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burnalways.
27:21 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which isbefore the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from eveningto morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto theirgenerations on the behalf of the children of Israel.
28:1 And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him,from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in thepriest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar,Aaron's sons.
28:2 And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for gloryand for beauty.
28:3 And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I havefilled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garmentsto consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest'soffice.
28:4 And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate,and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle:and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons,that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.
28:5 And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, andfine linen.
28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, ofscarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.
28:7 It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the twoedges thereof; and so it shall be joined together.
28:8 And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall beof the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, andpurple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
28:9 And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the namesof the children of Israel: 
28:10 Six of their names on one stone, andthe other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to theirbirth.
28:11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of asignet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of thechildren of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold.
28:12 And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of theephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaronshall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for amemorial.
28:13 And thou shalt make ouches of gold; 
28:14 And two chains of puregold at the ends; of wreathen work shalt thou make them, and fastenthe wreathen chains to the ouches.
28:15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunningwork; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, ofblue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shaltthou make it.
28:16 Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the lengththereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof.
28:17 And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows ofstones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle:this shall be the first row.
28:18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and adiamond.
28:19 And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.
28:20 And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: theyshall be set in gold in their inclosings.
28:21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children ofIsrael, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of asignet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelvetribes.
28:22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends ofwreathen work of pure gold.
28:23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, andshalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
28:24 And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the tworings which are on the ends of the breastplate.
28:25 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shaltfasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of theephod before it.
28:26 And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put themupon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof, which isin the side of the ephod inward.
28:27 And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put themon the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof,over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle ofthe ephod.
28:28 And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof untothe rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above thecurious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosedfrom the ephod.
28:29 And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in thebreastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holyplace, for a memorial before the LORD continually.
28:30 And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim andthe Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth inbefore the LORD: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children ofIsrael upon his heart before the LORD continually.
28:31 And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
28:32 And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midstthereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole ofit, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.
28:33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates ofblue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; andbells of gold between them round about: 
28:34 A golden bell and apomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the roberound about.
28:35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall beheard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and whenhe cometh out, that he die not.
28:36 And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it,like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
28:37 And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon themitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.
28:38 And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear theiniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallowin all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead,that they may be accepted before the LORD.
28:39 And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shaltmake the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle ofneedlework.
28:40 And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt makefor them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory andfor beauty.
28:41 And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sonswith him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctifythem, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.
28:42 And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover theirnakedness; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach: 
28:43 And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come inunto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near untothe altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity,and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed afterhim.
29:1 And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallowthem, to minister unto me in the priest's office: Take one youngbullock, and two rams without blemish, 
29:2 And unleavened bread, andcakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointedwith oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.
29:3 And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in thebasket, with the bullock and the two rams.
29:4 And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of thetabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.
29:5 And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat,and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, andgird him with the curious girdle of the ephod: 
29:6 And thou shalt putthe mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.
29:7 Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon hishead, and anoint him.
29:8 And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.
29:9 And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, andput the bonnets on them: and the priest's office shall be theirs for aperpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.
29:10 And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before thetabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron and his sons shall put theirhands upon the head of the bullock.
29:11 And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door ofthe tabernacle of the congregation.
29:12 And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it uponthe horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood besidethe bottom of the altar.
29:13 And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, andthe caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fatthat is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.
29:14 But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shaltthou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.
29:15 Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall puttheir hands upon the head of the ram.
29:16 And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, andsprinkle it round about upon the altar.
29:17 And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards ofhim, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.
29:18 And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burntoffering unto the LORD: it is a sweet savour, an offering made by fireunto the LORD.
29:19 And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shallput their hands upon the head of the ram.
29:20 Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put itupon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the rightear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon thegreat toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altarround about.
29:21 And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and ofthe anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments,and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and heshall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons'garments with him.
29:22 Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and thefat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and thetwo kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder;for it is a ram of consecration: 
29:23 And one loaf of bread, and onecake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavenedbread that is before the LORD: 
29:24 And thou shalt put all in thehands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them fora wave offering before the LORD.
29:25 And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them uponthe altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour before the LORD: itis an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
29:26 And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron'sconsecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and itshall be thy part.
29:27 And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and theshoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heavedup, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron,and of that which is for his sons: 
29:28 And it shall be Aaron's andhis sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it isan heave offering: and it shall be an heave offering from the childrenof Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heaveoffering unto the LORD.
29:29 And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, tobe anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.
29:30 And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on sevendays, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation tominister in the holy place.
29:31 And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe hisflesh in the holy place.
29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and thebread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernacle of thecongregation.
29:33 And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement wasmade, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eatthereof, because they are holy.
29:34 And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread,remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire:it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
29:35 And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according toall things which I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thouconsecrate them.
29:36 And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering foratonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made anatonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.
29:37 Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, andsanctify it; and it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheththe altar shall be holy.
29:38 Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; twolambs of the first year day by day continually.
29:39 The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lambthou shalt offer at even: 
29:40 And with the one lamb a tenth deal offlour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; and thefourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.
29:41 And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt dothereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and accordingto the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made byfire unto the LORD.
29:42 This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout yourgenerations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation beforethe LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thee.
29:43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and thetabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory.
29:44 And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation, and thealtar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to mein the priest's office.
29:45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be theirGod.
29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that broughtthem forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them: I amthe LORD their God.
30:1 And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: of shittimwood shalt thou make it.
30:2 A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadththereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits shall be the heightthereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.
30:3 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, andthe sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shaltmake unto it a crown of gold round about.
30:4 And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it,by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou makeit; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.
30:5 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay themwith gold.
30:6 And thou shalt put it before the vail that is by the ark of thetestimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where Iwill meet with thee.
30:7 And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when hedresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.
30:8 And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incenseupon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout yourgenerations.
30:9 Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice,nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.
30:10 And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in ayear with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in theyear shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: itis most holy unto the LORD.
30:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
30:12 When thou takestthe sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall theygive every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thounumberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thounumberest them.
30:13 This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that arenumbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekelis twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.
30:14 Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twentyyears old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD.
30:15 The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give lessthan half a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to makean atonement for your souls.
30:16 And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children ofIsrael, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of thecongregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israelbefore the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.
30:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
30:18 Thou shalt alsomake a laver of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal: andthou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and thealtar, and thou shalt put water therein.
30:19 For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feetthereat: 
30:20 When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation,they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come nearto the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:
30:21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they dienot: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and tohis seed throughout their generations.
30:22 Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
30:23 Take thou alsounto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and ofsweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, andof sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 
30:24 And of cassiafive hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oilolive an hin: 
30:25 And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, anointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holyanointing oil.
30:26 And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregationtherewith, and the ark of the testimony, 
30:27 And the table and allhis vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar ofincense, 
30:28 And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels,and the laver and his foot.
30:29 And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy:whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.
30:30 And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them,that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.
30:31 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Thisshall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.
30:32 Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye makeany other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and itshall be holy unto you.
30:33 Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any ofit upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.
30:34 And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices,stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with purefrankincense: of each shall there be a like weight: 
30:35 And thoushalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary,tempered together, pure and holy: 
30:36 And thou shalt beat some of itvery small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle ofthe congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto youmost holy.
30:37 And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not maketo yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be untothee holy for the LORD.
30:38 Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shalleven be cut off from his people.
31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
31:2 See, I have called byname Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
31:3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and inunderstanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
31:4 To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and inbrass, 
31:5 And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving oftimber, to work in all manner of workmanship.
31:6 And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son ofAhisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wisehearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I havecommanded thee; 
31:7 The tabernacle of the congregation, and the arkof the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all thefurniture of the tabernacle, 
31:8 And the table and his furniture, andthe pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,
31:9 And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and thelaver and his foot, 
31:10 And the cloths of service, and the holygarments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, tominister in the priest's office, 
31:11 And the anointing oil, andsweet incense for the holy place: according to all that I havecommanded thee shall they do.
31:12 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
31:13 Speak thou alsounto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep:for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; thatye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify you.
31:14 Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you:every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoeverdoeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among hispeople.
31:15 Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath ofrest, holy to the LORD: whosoever doeth any work in the sabbath day,he shall surely be put to death.
31:16 Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, toobserve the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetualcovenant.
31:17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever: forin six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day herested, and was refreshed.
31:18 And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communingwith him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone,written with the finger of God.
32:1 And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out ofthe mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, andsaid unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as forthis Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, wewot not what is become of him.
32:2 And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, whichare in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters,and bring them unto me.
32:3 And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were intheir ears, and brought them unto Aaron.
32:4 And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with agraving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, Thesebe thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
32:5 And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaronmade proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.
32:6 And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burntofferings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eatand to drink, and rose up to play.
32:7 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people,which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corruptedthemselves: 
32:8 They have turned aside quickly out of the way which Icommanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshippedit, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, OIsrael, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
32:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and,behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 
32:10 Now therefore let me alone,that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them:and I will make of thee a great nation.
32:11 And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, why doththy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forthout of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
32:12 Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief didhe bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume themfrom the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent ofthis evil against thy people.
32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thouswarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply yourseed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken ofwill I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.
32:14 And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do untohis people.
32:15 And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the twotables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written onboth their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.
32:16 And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was thewriting of God, graven upon the tables.
32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted,he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.
32:18 And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery,neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome: but thenoise of them that sing do I hear.
32:19 And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, thathe saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and hecast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.
32:20 And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in thefire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and madethe children of Israel drink of it.
32:21 And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, thatthou hast brought so great a sin upon them?  
32:22 And Aaron said, Letnot the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that theyare set on mischief.
32:23 For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us:for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land ofEgypt, we wot not what is become of him.
32:24 And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break itoff. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there cameout this calf.
32:25 And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron hadmade them naked unto their shame among their enemies:) 
32:26 ThenMoses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the LORD'sside? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gatheredthemselves together unto him.
32:27 And he said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Putevery man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gatethroughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man hiscompanion, and every man his neighbour.
32:28 And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: andthere fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
32:29 For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD,even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestowupon you a blessing this day.
32:30 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto thepeople, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto theLORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.
32:31 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people havesinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
32:32 Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me,I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.
32:33 And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me,him will I blot out of my book.
32:34 Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I havespoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee:nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.
32:35 And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf,which Aaron made.
33:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou andthe people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, untothe land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying,Unto thy seed will I give it: 
33:2 And I will send an angel beforethee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and theHittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: 
33:3 Unto aland flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst ofthee; for thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in theway.
33:4 And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: andno man did put on him his ornaments.
33:5 For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children ofIsrael, Ye are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst ofthee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thyornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.
33:6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornamentsby the mount Horeb.
33:7 And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp,afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of thecongregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought theLORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which waswithout the camp.
33:8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle,that all the people rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, andlooked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.
33:9 And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, thecloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, andthe Lord talked with Moses.
33:10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacledoor: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man in his tentdoor.
33:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speakethunto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servantJoshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of thetabernacle.
33:12 And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring upthis people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send withme. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also foundgrace in my sight.
33:13 Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight,shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace inthy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people.
33:14 And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will givethee rest.
33:15 And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry usnot up hence.
33:16 For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people havefound grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goest with us? soshall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that areupon the face of the earth.
33:17 And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also thatthou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I knowthee by name.
33:18 And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.
33:19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and Iwill proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be graciousto whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shewmercy.
33:20 And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no mansee me, and live.
33:21 And the LORD said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thoushalt stand upon a rock: 
33:22 And it shall come to pass, while myglory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, andwill cover thee with my hand while I pass by: 
33:23 And I will takeaway mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shallnot be seen.
34:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone likeunto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that werein the first tables, which thou brakest.
34:2 And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning untomount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.
34:3 And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seenthroughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed beforethat mount.
34:4 And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Mosesrose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as theLORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.
34:5 And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there,and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
34:6 And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, TheLORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant ingoodness and truth, 
34:7 Keeping mercy for thousands, forgivinginiquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clearthe guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children,and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourthgeneration.
34:8 And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, andworshipped.
34:9 And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, letmy LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; andpardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.
34:10 And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people Iwill do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor inany nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the workof the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.
34:11 Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I driveout before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, andthe Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
34:12 Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with theinhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare inthe midst of thee: 
34:13 But ye shall destroy their altars, breaktheir images, and cut down their groves: 
34:14 For thou shalt worshipno other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
34:15 Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, andthey go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods,and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice; 
34:16 And thou takeof their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoringafter their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.
34:17 Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.
34:18 The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thoushalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of themonth Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.
34:19 All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling amongthy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.
34:20 But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: andif thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All thefirstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear beforeme empty.
34:21 Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shaltrest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.
34:22 And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits ofwheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.
34:23 Thrice in the year shall all your menchildren appear before theLORD God, the God of Israel.
34:24 For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thyborders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go upto appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.
34:25 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven;neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left untothe morning.
34:26 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring untothe house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in hismother's milk.
34:27 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for afterthe tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and withIsrael.
34:28 And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; hedid neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tablesthe words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
34:29 And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai withthe two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from themount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while hetalked with him.
34:30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold,the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.
34:31 And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of thecongregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.
34:32 And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gavethem in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mountSinai.
34:33 And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on hisface.
34:34 But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, hetook the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake untothe children of Israel that which he was commanded.
34:35 And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skinof Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again,until he went in to speak with him.
35:1 And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israeltogether, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hathcommanded, that ye should do them.
35:2 Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shallbe to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doethwork therein shall be put to death.
35:3 Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon thesabbath day.
35:4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children ofIsrael, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,
35:5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is ofa willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, andsilver, and brass, 
35:6 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and finelinen, and goats' hair, 
35:7 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'skins, and shittim wood, 
35:8 And oil for the light, and spices foranointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 
35:9 And onyx stones, andstones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
35:10 And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all thatthe LORD hath commanded; 
35:11 The tabernacle, his tent, and hiscovering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and hissockets, 
35:12 The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat,and the vail of the covering, 
35:13 The table, and his staves, and allhis vessels, and the shewbread, 
35:14 The candlestick also for thelight, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,
35:15 And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil,and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering inof the tabernacle, 
35:16 The altar of burnt offering, with his brasengrate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot, 
35:17 The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and thehanging for the door of the court, 
35:18 The pins of the tabernacle,and the pins of the court, and their cords, 
35:19 The cloths ofservice, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaronthe priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest'soffice.
35:20 And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed fromthe presence of Moses.
35:21 And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and everyone whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD's offeringto the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all hisservice, and for the holy garments.
35:22 And they came, both men and women, as many as were willinghearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets,all jewels of gold: and every man that offered offered an offering ofgold unto the LORD.
35:23 And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, andscarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, andbadgers' skins, brought them.
35:24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass broughtthe LORD's offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim woodfor any work of the service, brought it.
35:25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with theirhands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and ofpurple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen.
35:26 And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spungoats' hair.
35:27 And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, forthe ephod, and for the breastplate; 
35:28 And spice, and oil for thelight, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
35:29 The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD,every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for allmanner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand ofMoses.
35:30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hathcalled by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribeof Judah; 
35:31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, inwisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner ofworkmanship; 
35:32 And to devise curious works, to work in gold, andin silver, and in brass, 
35:33 And in the cutting of stones, to setthem, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.
35:34 And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, andAholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
35:35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner ofwork, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of theembroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen,and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those thatdevise cunning work.
36:1 Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, inwhom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work allmanner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all thatthe LORD had commanded.
36:2 And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise heartedman, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whoseheart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it: 
36:3 And theyreceived of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel hadbrought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make itwithal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.
36:4 And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary,came every man from his work which they made; 
36:5 And they spake untoMoses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the serviceof the work, which the LORD commanded to make.
36:6 And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimedthroughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any morework for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrainedfrom bringing.
36:7 For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to makeit, and too much.
36:8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work ofthe tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, andpurple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work made he them.
36:9 The length of one curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and thebreadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.
36:10 And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and the otherfive curtains he coupled one unto another.
36:11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from theselvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side ofanother curtain, in the coupling of the second.
36:12 Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he inthe edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second: theloops held one curtain to another.
36:13 And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains oneunto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.
36:14 And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over thetabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.
36:15 The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits wasthe breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains were of one size.
36:16 And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains bythemselves.
36:17 And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtainin the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtainwhich coupleth the second.
36:18 And he made fifty taches of brass to couple the tent together,that it might be one.
36:19 And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, anda covering of badgers' skins above that.
36:20 And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standingup.
36:21 The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a boardone cubit and a half.
36:22 One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thusdid he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
36:23 And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for thesouth side southward: 
36:24 And forty sockets of silver he made underthe twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, andtwo sockets under another board for his two tenons.
36:25 And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward thenorth corner, he made twenty boards, 
36:26 And their forty sockets ofsilver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under anotherboard.
36:27 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
36:28 And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in thetwo sides.
36:29 And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the headthereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.
36:30 And there were eight boards; and their sockets were sixteensockets of silver, under every board two sockets.
36:31 And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the oneside of the tabernacle, 
36:32 And five bars for the boards of theother side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of thetabernacle for the sides westward.
36:33 And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from theone end to the other.
36:34 And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings ofgold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
36:35 And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and finetwined linen: with cherubims made he it of cunning work.
36:36 And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaidthem with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them foursockets of silver.
36:37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, andpurple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; 
36:38 Andthe five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid theirchapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were ofbrass.
37:1 And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a halfwas the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and acubit and a half the height of it: 
37:2 And he overlaid it with puregold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about.
37:3 And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the fourcorners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two ringsupon the other side of it.
37:4 And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.
37:5 And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, tobear the ark.
37:6 And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a halfwas the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
37:7 And he made two cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece madehe them, on the two ends of the mercy seat; 
37:8 One cherub on the endon this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out ofthe mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof.
37:9 And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, and coveredwith their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another;even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims.
37:10 And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the lengththereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half theheight thereof: 
37:11 And he overlaid it with pure gold, and madethereunto a crown of gold round about.
37:12 Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about;and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about.
37:13 And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings uponthe four corners that were in the four feet thereof.
37:14 Over against the border were the rings, the places for thestaves to bear the table.
37:15 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them withgold, to bear the table.
37:16 And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes,and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of puregold.
37:17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made hethe candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, andhis flowers, were of the same: 
37:18 And six branches going out of thesides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one sidethereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other sidethereof: 
37:19 Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in onebranch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds inanother branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branchesgoing out of the candlestick.
37:20 And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, hisknops, and his flowers: 
37:21 And a knop under two branches of thesame, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under twobranches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.
37:22 Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it wasone beaten work of pure gold.
37:23 And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and hissnuffdishes, of pure gold.
37:24 Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vesselsthereof.
37:25 And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of itwas a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and twocubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.
37:26 And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and thesides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it acrown of gold round about.
37:27 And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, bythe two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places forthe staves to bear it withal.
37:28 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them withgold.
37:29 And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense ofsweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.
38:1 And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: fivecubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; itwas foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.
38:2 And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; thehorns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass.
38:3 And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and theshovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all thevessels thereof made he of brass.
38:4 And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under thecompass thereof beneath unto the midst of it.
38:5 And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass,to be places for the staves.
38:6 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them withbrass.
38:7 And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar,to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.
38:8 And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, ofthe lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at thedoor of the tabernacle of the congregation.
38:9 And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangingsof the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits: 
38:10 Theirpillars were twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of thepillars and their fillets were of silver.
38:11 And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits,their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; thehooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.
38:12 And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, theirpillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and theirfillets of silver.
38:13 And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.
38:14 The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits;their pillars three, and their sockets three.
38:15 And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and thathand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and theirsockets three.
38:16 All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twinedlinen.
38:17 And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of thepillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of theirchapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filletedwith silver.
38:18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, ofblue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twentycubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits,answerable to the hangings of the court.
38:19 And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass four;their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and theirfillets of silver.
38:20 And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court roundabout, were of brass.
38:21 This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle oftestimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses,for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaronthe priest.
38:22 And Bezaleel the son Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,made all that the LORD commanded Moses.
38:23 And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan,an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and inpurple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.
38:24 All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work ofthe holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty and ninetalents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of thesanctuary.
38:25 And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregationwas an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescoreand fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 
38:26 A bekahfor every man, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of thesanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty yearsold and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and fivehundred and fifty men.
38:27 And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets ofthe sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of thehundred talents, a talent for a socket.
38:28 And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five shekels hemade hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filletedthem.
38:29 And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and twothousand and four hundred shekels.
38:30 And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacleof the congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate forit, and all the vessels of the altar, 
38:31 And the sockets of thecourt round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pinsof the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.
39:1 And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths ofservice, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garmentsfor Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses.
39:2 And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, andfine twined linen.
39:3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it intowires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet,and in the fine linen, with cunning work.
39:4 They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple it together: by thetwo edges was it coupled together.
39:5 And the curious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of thesame, according to the work thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, andscarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses.
39:6 And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven,as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel.
39:7 And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they shouldbe stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORDcommanded Moses.
39:8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of theephod; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
39:9 It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span wasthe length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled.
39:10 And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was asardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first row.
39:11 And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.
39:12 And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.
39:13 And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: they wereinclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings.
39:14 And the stones were according to the names of the children ofIsrael, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of asignet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes.
39:15 And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, ofwreathen work of pure gold.
39:16 And they made two ouches of gold, and two gold rings; and putthe two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.
39:17 And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings onthe ends of the breastplate.
39:18 And the two ends of the two wreathen chains they fastened in thetwo ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, beforeit.
39:19 And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends ofthe breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of theephod inward.
39:20 And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the twosides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over againstthe other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.
39:21 And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings ofthe ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curiousgirdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed fromthe ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.
39:22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
39:23 And there was an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole ofan habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should notrend.
39:24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue,and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen.
39:25 And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between thepomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between thepomegranates; 
39:26 A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and apomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as theLORD commanded Moses.
39:27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, andfor his sons, 
39:28 And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets offine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen, 
39:29 And agirdle of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, ofneedlework; as the LORD commanded Moses.
39:30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, andwrote upon it a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESSTO THE LORD.
39:31 And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high uponthe mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.
39:32 Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of thecongregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to allthat the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.
39:33 And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and allhis furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, andhis sockets, 
39:34 And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and thecovering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering, 
39:35 Theark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,
39:36 The table, and all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread, 
39:37 The pure candlestick, with the lamps thereof, even with the lamps tobe set in order, and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light,
39:38 And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweetincense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door, 
39:39 The brasenaltar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vessels, thelaver and his foot, 
39:40 The hangings of the court, his pillars, andhis sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and hispins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for thetent of the congregation, 
39:41 The cloths of service to do service inthe holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and hissons' garments, to minister in the priest's office.
39:42 According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the childrenof Israel made all the work.
39:43 And Moses did look upon all the work, and, behold, they had doneit as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: and Mosesblessed them.
40:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
40:2 On the first day ofthe first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of thecongregation.
40:3 And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and coverthe ark with the vail.
40:4 And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the thingsthat are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in thecandlestick, and light the lamps thereof.
40:5 And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before theark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to thetabernacle.
40:6 And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before thedoor of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.
40:7 And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregationand the altar, and shalt put water therein.
40:8 And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up thehanging at the court gate.
40:9 And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle,and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vesselsthereof: and it shall be holy.
40:10 And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and allhis vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar mostholy.
40:11 And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it.
40:12 And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of thetabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.
40:13 And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him,and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.
40:14 And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats: 
40:15 And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, thatthey may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointingshall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout theirgenerations.
40:16 Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, sodid he.
40:17 And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, onthe first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.
40:18 And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets,and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and rearedup his pillars.
40:19 And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put thecovering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.
40:20 And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set thestaves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark: 
40:21 And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of thecovering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commandedMoses.
40:22 And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon theside of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.
40:23 And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as theLORD had commanded Moses.
40:24 And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, overagainst the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
40:25 And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commandedMoses.
40:26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregationbefore the vail: 
40:27 And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORDcommanded Moses.
40:28 And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle.
40:29 And he put the altar of burnt offering by the door of thetabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it theburnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.
40:30 And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation andthe altar, and put water there, to wash withal.
40:31 And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and theirfeet thereat: 
40:32 When they went into the tent of the congregation,and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORDcommanded Moses.
40:33 And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and thealtar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished thework.
40:34 Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the gloryof the LORD filled the tabernacle.
40:35 And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of thecongregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of theLORD filled the tabernacle.
40:36 And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, thechildren of Israel went onward in all their journeys: 
40:37 But if thecloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that itwas taken up.
40:38 For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, andfire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel,throughout all their journeys.