1:1 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month,in the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the riverof Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.
1:2 In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of kingJehoiachin's captivity, 
1:3 The word of the LORD came expressly untoEzekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans bythe river Chebar; and the hand of the LORD was there upon him.
1:4 And I looked, and, behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, agreat cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness was aboutit, and out of the midst thereof as the colour of amber, out of themidst of the fire.
1:5 Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four livingcreatures. And this was their appearance; they had the likeness of aman.
1:6 And every one had four faces, and every one had four wings.
1:7 And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet waslike the sole of a calf's foot: and they sparkled like the colour ofburnished brass.
1:8 And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their foursides; and they four had their faces and their wings.
1:9 Their wings were joined one to another; they turned not when theywent; they went every one straight forward.
1:10 As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of aman, and the face of a lion, on the right side: and they four had theface of an ox on the left side; they four also had the face of aneagle.
1:11 Thus were their faces: and their wings were stretched upward; twowings of every one were joined one to another, and two covered theirbodies.
1:12 And they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit wasto go, they went; and they turned not when they went.
1:13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance waslike burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps: it wentup and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, andout of the fire went forth lightning.
1:14 And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of aflash of lightning.
1:15 Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one wheel upon theearth by the living creatures, with his four faces.
1:16 The appearance of the wheels and their work was like unto thecolour of a beryl: and they four had one likeness: and theirappearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the middle of awheel.
1:17 When they went, they went upon their four sides: and they turnednot when they went.
1:18 As for their rings, they were so high that they were dreadful;and their rings were full of eyes round about them four.
1:19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them: andwhen the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheelswere lifted up.
1:20 Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went, thither was theirspirit to go; and the wheels were lifted up over against them: for thespirit of the living creature was in the wheels.
1:21 When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood;and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were liftedup over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in thewheels.
1:22 And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the livingcreature was as the colour of the terrible crystal, stretched forthover their heads above.
1:23 And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one towardthe other: every one had two, which covered on this side, and everyone had two, which covered on that side, their bodies.
1:24 And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like thenoise of great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, the voice ofspeech, as the noise of an host: when they stood, they let down theirwings.
1:25 And there was a voice from the firmament that was over theirheads, when they stood, and had let down their wings.
1:26 And above the firmament that was over their heads was thelikeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone: and uponthe likeness of the throne was the likeness as the appearance of a manabove upon it.
1:27 And I saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance of fire roundabout within it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, andfrom the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were theappearance of fire, and it had brightness round about.
1:28 As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day ofrain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This wasthe appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when Isaw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.
2:1 And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I willspeak unto thee.
2:2 And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set meupon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.
2:3 And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children ofIsrael, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: they andtheir fathers have transgressed against me, even unto this very day.
2:4 For they are impudent children and stiffhearted. I do send theeunto them; and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD.
2:5 And they, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear,(for they are a rebellious house,) yet shall know that there hath beena prophet among them.
2:6 And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid oftheir words, though briers and thorns be with thee, and thou dostdwell among scorpions: be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayedat their looks, though they be a rebellious house.
2:7 And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear,or whether they will forbear: for they are most rebellious.
2:8 But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee; Be not thourebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eat that Igive thee.
2:9 And when I looked, behold, an hand was sent unto me; and, lo, aroll of a book was therein; 
2:10 And he spread it before me; and itwas written within and without: and there was written thereinlamentations, and mourning, and woe.
3:1 Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, eat that thou findest; eatthis roll, and go speak unto the house of Israel.
3:2 So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat that roll.
3:3 And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and fillthy bowels with this roll that I give thee. Then did I eat it; and itwas in my mouth as honey for sweetness.
3:4 And he said unto me, Son of man, go, get thee unto the house ofIsrael, and speak with my words unto them.
3:5 For thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech and of anhard language, but to the house of Israel; 
3:6 Not to many people of astrange speech and of an hard language, whose words thou canst notunderstand. Surely, had I sent thee to them, they would have hearkenedunto thee.
3:7 But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee; for they willnot hearken unto me: for all the house of Israel are impudent andhardhearted.
3:8 Behold, I have made thy face strong against their faces, and thyforehead strong against their foreheads.
3:9 As an adamant harder than flint have I made thy forehead: fearthem not, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they be arebellious house.
3:10 Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, all my words that I shallspeak unto thee receive in thine heart, and hear with thine ears.
3:11 And go, get thee to them of the captivity, unto the children ofthy people, and speak unto them, and tell them, Thus saith the LordGOD; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.
3:12 Then the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me a voice of agreat rushing, saying, Blessed be the glory of the LORD from hisplace.
3:13 I heard also the noise of the wings of the living creatures thattouched one another, and the noise of the wheels over against them,and a noise of a great rushing.
3:14 So the spirit lifted me up, and took me away, and I went inbitterness, in the heat of my spirit; but the hand of the LORD wasstrong upon me.
3:15 Then I came to them of the captivity at Telabib, that dwelt bythe river of Chebar, and I sat where they sat, and remained thereastonished among them seven days.
3:16 And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word ofthe LORD came unto me, saying, 
3:17 Son of man, I have made thee awatchman unto the house of Israel: therefore hear the word at mymouth, and give them warning from me.
3:18 When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thougivest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from hiswicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in hisiniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand.
3:19 Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness,nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hastdelivered thy soul.
3:20 Again, When a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, andcommit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling-block before him, he shall die:because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, andhis righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but hisblood will I require at thine hand.
3:21 Nevertheless if thou warn the righteous man, that the righteoussin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he iswarned; also thou hast delivered thy soul.
3:22 And the hand of the LORD was there upon me; and he said unto me,Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee.
3:23 Then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, theglory of the LORD stood there, as the glory which I saw by the riverof Chebar: and I fell on my face.
3:24 Then the spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet, andspake with me, and said unto me, Go, shut thyself within thine house.
3:25 But thou, O son of man, behold, they shall put bands upon thee,and shall bind thee with them, and thou shalt not go out among them:
3:26 And I will make thy tongue cleave to the roof of thy mouth, thatthou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them a reprover: for they area rebellious house.
3:27 But when I speak with thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shaltsay unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; He that heareth, let him hear;and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they are a rebellioushouse.
4:1 Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee,and pourtray upon it the city, even Jerusalem: 
4:2 And lay siegeagainst it, and build a fort against it, and cast a mount against it;set the camp also against it, and set battering rams against it roundabout.
4:3 Moreover take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall ofiron between thee and the city: and set thy face against it, and itshall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This shall bea sign to the house of Israel.
4:4 Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of thehouse of Israel upon it: according to the number of the days that thoushalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their iniquity.
4:5 For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, accordingto the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days: so shaltthou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
4:6 And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side,and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: Ihave appointed thee each day for a year.
4:7 Therefore thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem,and thine arm shall be uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it.
4:8 And, behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turnthee from one side to another, till thou hast ended the days of thysiege.
4:9 Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, andlentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, andmake thee bread thereof, according to the number of the days that thoushalt lie upon thy side, three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eatthereof.
4:10 And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twentyshekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it.
4:11 Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth part of an hin:from time to time shalt thou drink.
4:12 And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake itwith dung that cometh out of man, in their sight.
4:13 And the LORD said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eattheir defiled bread among the Gentiles, whither I will drive them.
4:14 Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! behold, my soul hath not been polluted:for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that whichdieth of itself, or is torn in pieces; neither came there abominableflesh into my mouth.
4:15 Then he said unto me, Lo, I have given thee cow's dung for man'sdung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith.
4:16 Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break thestaff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, andwith care; and they shall drink water by measure, and withastonishment: 
4:17 That they may want bread and water, and be astoniedone with another, and consume away for their iniquity.
5:1 And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee abarber's razor, and cause it to pass upon thine head and upon thybeard: then take thee balances to weigh, and divide the hair.
5:2 Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city,when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and thou shalt take a thirdpart, and smite about it with a knife: and a third part thou shaltscatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them.
5:3 Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thyskirts.
5:4 Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire,and burn them in the fire; for thereof shall a fire come forth intoall the house of Israel.
5:5 Thus saith the Lord GOD; This is Jerusalem: I have set it in themidst of the nations and countries that are round about her.
5:6 And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than thenations, and my statutes more than the countries that are round abouther: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have notwalked in them.
5:7 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye multiplied more thanthe nations that are round about you, and have not walked in mystatutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done accordingto the judgments of the nations that are round about you; 
5:8 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, am against thee,and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of thenations.
5:9 And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto Iwill not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations.
5:10 Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee,and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments inthee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds.
5:11 Wherefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thouhast defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with allthine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee; neither shallmine eye spare, neither will I have any pity.
5:12 A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and withfamine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third partshall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a thirdpart into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them.
5:13 Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my furyto rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know that Ithe LORD have spoken it in my zeal, when I have accomplished my furyin them.
5:14 Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the nationsthat are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by.
5:15 So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and anastonishment unto the nations that are round about thee, when I shallexecute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes.I the LORD have spoken it.
5:16 When I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, whichshall be for their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you:and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff ofbread: 
5:17 So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and theyshall bereave thee: and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee;and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have spoken it.
6:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
6:2 Son of man, setthy face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
6:3 And say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD;Thus saith the Lord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to therivers, and to the valleys; Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword uponyou, and I will destroy your high places.
6:4 And your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall bebroken: and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.
6:5 And I will lay the dead carcases of the children of Israel beforetheir idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
6:6 In all your dwellingplaces the cities shall be laid waste, and thehigh places shall be desolate; that your altars may be laid waste andmade desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your imagesmay be cut down, and your works may be abolished.
6:7 And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and ye shall knowthat I am the LORD.
6:8 Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shallescape the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered throughthe countries.
6:9 And they that escape of you shall remember me among the nationswhither they shall be carried captives, because I am broken with theirwhorish heart, which hath departed from me, and with their eyes, whichgo a whoring after their idols: and they shall lothe themselves forthe evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
6:10 And they shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not saidin vain that I would do this evil unto them.
6:11 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Smite with thine hand, and stamp withthy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house ofIsrael! for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by thepestilence.
6:12 He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that isnear shall fall by the sword; and he that remaineth and is besiegedshall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.
6:13 Then shall ye know that I am the LORD, when their slain men shallbe among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill,in all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, andunder every thick oak, the place where they did offer sweet savour toall their idols.
6:14 So will I stretch out my hand upon them, and make the landdesolate, yea, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, inall their habitations: and they shall know that I am the LORD.
7:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
7:2 Also, thouson of man, thus saith the Lord GOD unto the land of Israel; An end,the end is come upon the four corners of the land.
7:3 Now is the end come upon thee, and I will send mine anger uponthee, and will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompenseupon thee all thine abominations.
7:4 And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity: but Iwill recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be inthe midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
7:5 Thus saith the Lord GOD; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come.
7:6 An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for thee; behold, itis come.
7:7 The morning is come unto thee, O thou that dwellest in the land:the time is come, the day of trouble is near, and not the soundingagain of the mountains.
7:8 Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mineanger upon thee: and I will judge thee according to thy ways, and willrecompense thee for all thine abominations.
7:9 And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I willrecompense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations that arein the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am the LORD thatsmiteth.
7:10 Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth;the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded.
7:11 Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none of them shallremain, nor of their multitude, nor of any of their's: neither shallthere be wailing for them.
7:12 The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyerrejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitudethereof.
7:13 For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, althoughthey were yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitudethereof, which shall not return; neither shall any strengthen himselfin the iniquity of his life.
7:14 They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but nonegoeth to the battle: for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.
7:15 The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within:he that is in the field shall die with the sword; and he that is inthe city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.
7:16 But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on themountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every onefor his iniquity.
7:17 All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.
7:18 They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shallcover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon alltheir heads.
7:19 They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shallbe removed: their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliverthem in the day of the wrath of the LORD: they shall not satisfy theirsouls, neither fill their bowels: because it is the stumblingblock oftheir iniquity.
7:20 As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty: but theymade the images of their abominations and of their detestable thingstherein: therefore have I set it far from them.
7:21 And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey,and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall pollute it.
7:22 My face will I turn also from them, and they shall pollute mysecret place: for the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it.
7:23 Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the cityis full of violence.
7:24 Wherefore I will bring the worst of the heathen, and they shallpossess their houses: I will also make the pomp of the strong tocease; and their holy places shall be defiled.
7:25 Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall benone.
7:26 Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumour shall be uponrumour; then shall they seek a vision of the prophet; but the lawshall perish from the priest, and counsel from the ancients.
7:27 The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed withdesolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled:I will do unto them after their way, and according to their desertswill I judge them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
8:1 And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, in thefifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and the elders ofJudah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.
8:2 Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: fromthe appearance of his loins even downward, fire; and from his loinseven upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.
8:3 And he put forth the form of an hand, and took me by a lock ofmine head; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and theheaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the doorof the inner gate that looketh toward the north; where was the seat ofthe image of jealousy, which provoketh to jealousy.
8:4 And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, accordingto the vision that I saw in the plain.
8:5 Then said he unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now the waytoward the north. So I lifted up mine eyes the way toward the north,and behold northward at the gate of the altar this image of jealousyin the entry.
8:6 He said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest thou what they do?even the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth here,that I should go far off from my sanctuary? but turn thee yet again,and thou shalt see greater abominations.
8:7 And he brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked,behold a hole in the wall.
8:8 Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall: and when Ihad digged in the wall, behold a door.
8:9 And he said unto me, Go in, and behold the wicked abominationsthat they do here.
8:10 So I went in and saw; and behold every form of creeping things,and abominable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel,pourtrayed upon the wall round about.
8:11 And there stood before them seventy men of the ancients of thehouse of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son ofShaphan, with every man his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud ofincense went up.
8:12 Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what theancients of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in thechambers of his imagery? for they say, the LORD seeth us not; the LORDhath forsaken the earth.
8:13 He said also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt seegreater abominations that they do.
8:14 Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORD's housewhich was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping forTammuz.
8:15 Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? turnthee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations than these.
8:16 And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD's house, and,behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch andthe altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs toward thetemple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east; and theyworshipped the sun toward the east.
8:17 Then he said unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? Is it alight thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominationswhich they commit here? for they have filled the land with violence,and have returned to provoke me to anger: and, lo, they put the branchto their nose.
8:18 Therefore will I also deal in fury: mine eye shall not spare,neither will I have pity: and though they cry in mine ears with a loudvoice, yet will I not hear them.
9:1 He cried also in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause themthat have charge over the city to draw near, even every man with hisdestroying weapon in his hand.
9:2 And, behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, whichlieth toward the north, and every man a slaughter weapon in his hand;and one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writer's inkhornby his side: and they went in, and stood beside the brasen altar.
9:3 And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub,whereupon he was, to the threshold of the house. And he called to theman clothed with linen, which had the writer's inkhorn by his side;
9:4 And the LORD said unto him, Go through the midst of the city,through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads ofthe men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that be donein the midst thereof.
9:5 And to the others he said in mine hearing, Go ye after him throughthe city, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have ye pity: 
9:6 Slay utterly old and young, both maids, and little children, andwomen: but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and begin atmy sanctuary. Then they began at the ancient men which were before thehouse.
9:7 And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts withthe slain: go ye forth. And they went forth, and slew in the city.
9:8 And it came to pass, while they were slaying them, and I was left,that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thoudestroy all the residue of Israel in thy pouring out of thy fury uponJerusalem?  
9:9 Then said he unto me, The iniquity of the house ofIsrael and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood,and the city full of perverseness: for they say, The LORD hathforsaken the earth, and the LORD seeth not.
9:10 And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I havepity, but I will recompense their way upon their head.
9:11 And, behold, the man clothed with linen, which had the inkhorn byhis side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hastcommanded me.
10:1 Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that was above thehead of the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphirestone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne.
10:2 And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go inbetween the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hand withcoals of fire from between the cherubims, and scatter them over thecity. And he went in in my sight.
10:3 Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when theman went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.
10:4 Then the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub, and stoodover the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with thecloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD's glory.
10:5 And the sound of the cherubims' wings was heard even to the outercourt, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh.
10:6 And it came to pass, that when he had commanded the man clothedwith linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from betweenthe cherubims; then he went in, and stood beside the wheels.
10:7 And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between thecherubims unto the fire that was between the cherubims, and tookthereof, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen:who took it, and went out.
10:8 And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a man's handunder their wings.
10:9 And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the cherubims, onewheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and theappearance of the wheels was as the colour of a beryl stone.
10:10 And as for their appearances, they four had one likeness, as ifa wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.
10:11 When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turned notas they went, but to the place whither the head looked they followedit; they turned not as they went.
10:12 And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, andtheir wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, even thewheels that they four had.
10:13 As for the wheels, it was cried unto them in my hearing, Owheel.
10:14 And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of acherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third theface of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
10:15 And the cherubims were lifted up. This is the living creaturethat I saw by the river of Chebar.
10:16 And when the cherubims went, the wheels went by them: and whenthe cherubims lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, thesame wheels also turned not from beside them.
10:17 When they stood, these stood; and when they were lifted up,these lifted up themselves also: for the spirit of the living creaturewas in them.
10:18 Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold ofthe house, and stood over the cherubims.
10:19 And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and mounted up from theearth in my sight: when they went out, the wheels also were besidethem, and every one stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD'shouse; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
10:20 This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israelby the river of Chebar; and I knew that they were the cherubims.
10:21 Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings; andthe likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.
10:22 And the likeness of their faces was the same faces which I sawby the river of Chebar, their appearances and themselves: they wentevery one straight forward.
11:1 Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the eastgate of the LORD's house, which looketh eastward: and behold at thedoor of the gate five and twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah theson of Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
11:2 Then said he unto me, Son of man, these are the men that devisemischief, and give wicked counsel in this city: 
11:3 Which say, It isnot near; let us build houses: this city is the caldron, and we be theflesh.
11:4 Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.
11:5 And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said unto me, Speak;Thus saith the LORD; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I knowthe things that come into your mind, every one of them.
11:6 Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filledthe streets thereof with the slain.
11:7 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laidin the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron:but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it.
11:8 Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you,saith the Lord GOD.
11:9 And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver youinto the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.
11:10 Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border ofIsrael; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
11:11 This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be theflesh in the midst thereof; but I will judge you in the border ofIsrael: 
11:12 And ye shall know that I am the LORD: for ye have notwalked in my statutes, neither executed my judgments, but have doneafter the manners of the heathen that are round about you.
11:13 And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son ofBenaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loudvoice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnantof Israel?  
11:14 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
11:15 Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thykindred, and all the house of Israel wholly, are they unto whom theinhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from the LORD: unto usis this land given in possession.
11:16 Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have castthem far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered themamong the countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary inthe countries where they shall come.
11:17 Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather youfrom the people, and assemble you out of the countries where ye havebeen scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
11:18 And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all thedetestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof fromthence.
11:19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spiritwithin you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, andwill give them an heart of flesh: 
11:20 That they may walk in mystatutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be mypeople, and I will be their God.
11:21 But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of theirdetestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their wayupon their own heads, saith the Lord GOD.
11:22 Then did the cherubims lift up their wings, and the wheelsbeside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
11:23 And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city,and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city.
11:24 Afterwards the spirit took me up, and brought me in a vision bythe Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So thevision that I had seen went up from me.
11:25 Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that theLORD had shewed me.
12:1 The word of the LORD also came unto me, saying, 
12:2 Son of man,thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes tosee, and see not; they have ears to hear, and hear not: for they are arebellious house.
12:3 Therefore, thou son of man, prepare thee stuff for removing, andremove by day in their sight; and thou shalt remove from thy place toanother place in their sight: it may be they will consider, thoughthey be a rebellious house.
12:4 Then shalt thou bring forth thy stuff by day in their sight, asstuff for removing: and thou shalt go forth at even in their sight, asthey that go forth into captivity.
12:5 Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.
12:6 In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders, and carryit forth in the twilight: thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see notthe ground: for I have set thee for a sign unto the house of Israel.
12:7 And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day,as stuff for captivity, and in the even I digged through the wall withmine hand; I brought it forth in the twilight, and I bare it upon myshoulder in their sight.
12:8 And in the morning came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,
12:9 Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, the rebellious house,said unto thee, What doest thou?  
12:10 Say thou unto them, Thus saiththe Lord GOD; This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and allthe house of Israel that are among them.
12:11 Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be doneunto them: they shall remove and go into captivity.
12:12 And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulderin the twilight, and shall go forth: they shall dig through the wallto carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, that he see not theground with his eyes.
12:13 My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in mysnare: and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans;yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there.
12:14 And I will scatter toward every wind all that are about him tohelp him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them.
12:15 And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall scatterthem among the nations, and disperse them in the countries.
12:16 But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from thefamine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all theirabominations among the heathen whither they come; and they shall knowthat I am the LORD.
12:17 Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 
12:18 Son ofman, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with tremblingand with carefulness; 
12:19 And say unto the people of the land, Thussaith the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and of the land ofIsrael; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and drink theirwater with astonishment, that her land may be desolate from all thatis therein, because of the violence of all them that dwell therein.
12:20 And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and theland shall be desolate; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
12:21 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
12:22 Son of man,what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, saying, Thedays are prolonged, and every vision faileth?  
12:23 Tell themtherefore, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will make this proverb to cease,and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but say untothem, The days are at hand, and the effect of every vision.
12:24 For there shall be no more any vain vision nor flatteringdivination within the house of Israel.
12:25 For I am the LORD: I will speak, and the word that I shall speakshall come to pass; it shall be no more prolonged: for in your days, Orebellious house, will I say the word, and will perform it, saith theLord GOD.
12:26 Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying.
12:27 Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The visionthat he seeth is for many days to come, and he prophesieth of thetimes that are far off.
12:28 Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; There shallnone of my words be prolonged any more, but the word which I havespoken shall be done, saith the Lord GOD.
13:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
13:2 Son of man,prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say thouunto them that prophesy out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word ofthe LORD; 
13:3 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe unto the foolish prophets,that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!  
13:4 O Israel,thy prophets are like the foxes in the deserts.
13:5 Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge forthe house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD.
13:6 They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, The LORDsaith: and the LORD hath not sent them: and they have made others tohope that they would confirm the word.
13:7 Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a lyingdivination, whereas ye say, The LORD saith it; albeit I have notspoken?  
13:8 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye havespoken vanity, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you,saith the Lord GOD.
13:9 And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that see vanity, andthat divine lies: they shall not be in the assembly of my people,neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel,neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall knowthat I am the Lord GOD.
13:10 Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying,Peace; and there was no peace; and one built up a wall, and, lo,others daubed it with untempered morter: 
13:11 Say unto them whichdaub it with untempered morter, that it shall fall: there shall be anoverflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and astormy wind shall rend it.
13:12 Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you,Where is the daubing wherewith ye have daubed it?  
13:13 Thereforethus saith the Lord GOD; I will even rend it with a stormy wind in myfury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in mine anger, andgreat hailstones in my fury to consume it.
13:14 So will I break down the wall that ye have daubed withuntempered morter, and bring it down to the ground, so that thefoundation thereof shall be discovered, and it shall fall, and yeshall be consumed in the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I amthe LORD.
13:15 Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon themthat have daubed it with untempered morter, and will say unto you, Thewall is no more, neither they that daubed it; 
13:16 To wit, theprophets of Israel which prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and which seevisions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the Lord GOD.
13:17 Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters ofthy people, which prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy thouagainst them, 
13:18 And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the womenthat sew pillows to all armholes, and make kerchiefs upon the head ofevery stature to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, andwill ye save the souls alive that come unto you?  
13:19 And will yepollute me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces ofbread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to save the soulsalive that should not live, by your lying to my people that hear yourlies?  
13:20 Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am againstyour pillows, wherewith ye there hunt the souls to make them fly, andI will tear them from your arms, and will let the souls go, even thesouls that ye hunt to make them fly.
13:21 Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out ofyour hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and yeshall know that I am the LORD.
13:22 Because with lies ye have made the heart of the righteous sad,whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked,that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life:
13:23 Therefore ye shall see no more vanity, nor divine divinations:for I will deliver my people out of your hand: and ye shall know thatI am the LORD.
14:1 Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me, and sat beforeme.
14:2 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
14:3 Son of man,these men have set up their idols in their heart, and put thestumblingblock of their iniquity before their face: should I beenquired of at all by them?  
14:4 Therefore speak unto them, and sayunto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Every man of the house of Israelthat setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblockof his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet; I the LORDwill answer him that cometh according to the multitude of his idols;
14:5 That I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, becausethey are all estranged from me through their idols.
14:6 Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your facesfrom all your abominations.
14:7 For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger thatsojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me, and setteth uphis idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquitybefore his face, and cometh to a prophet to enquire of him concerningme; I the LORD will answer him by myself: 
14:8 And I will set my faceagainst that man, and will make him a sign and a proverb, and I willcut him off from the midst of my people; and ye shall know that I amthe LORD.
14:9 And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I theLORD have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand uponhim, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
14:10 And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity: thepunishment of the prophet shall be even as the punishment of him thatseeketh unto him; 
14:11 That the house of Israel may go no more astrayfrom me, neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions;but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the LordGOD.
14:12 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 
14:13 Son of man,when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then willI stretch out mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the breadthereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beastfrom it: 
14:14 Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were init, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness,saith the Lord GOD.
14:15 If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and theyspoil it, so that it be desolate, that no man may pass through becauseof the beasts: 
14:16 Though these three men were in it, as I live,saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters;they only shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.
14:17 Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go throughthe land; so that I cut off man and beast from it: 
14:18 Though thesethree men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shalldeliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only shall be deliveredthemselves.
14:19 Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my furyupon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast: 
14:20 Though Noah,Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shalldeliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their ownsouls by their righteousness.
14:21 For thus saith the Lord GOD; How much more when I send my foursore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and thenoisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?
14:22 Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall bebrought forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall come forthunto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings: and ye shall becomforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, evenconcerning all that I have brought upon it.
14:23 And they shall comfort you, when ye see their ways and theirdoings: and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all thatI have done in it, saith the Lord GOD.
15:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
15:2 Son of man,what is the vine tree more than any tree, or than a branch which isamong the trees of the forest?  
15:3 Shall wood be taken thereof to doany work? or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?
15:4 Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire devourethboth the ends of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it meet for anywork?  
15:5 Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: howmuch less shall it be meet yet for any work, when the fire hathdevoured it, and it is burned?  
15:6 Therefore thus saith the LordGOD; As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I havegiven to the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants ofJerusalem.
15:7 And I will set my face against them; they shall go out from onefire, and another fire shall devour them; and ye shall know that I amthe LORD, when I set my face against them.
15:8 And I will make the land desolate, because they have committed atrespass, saith the Lord GOD.
16:1 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
16:2 Son of man,cause Jerusalem to know her abominations, 
16:3 And say, Thus saith theLord GOD unto Jerusalem; Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land ofCanaan; thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite.
16:4 And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born thy navel wasnot cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee; thou wastnot salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
16:5 None eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to havecompassion upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open field, to thelothing of thy person, in the day that thou wast born.
16:6 And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted in thine ownblood, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live; yea, I saidunto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live.
16:7 I have caused thee to multiply as the bud of the field, and thouhast increased and waxen great, and thou art come to excellentornaments: thy breasts are fashioned, and thine hair is grown, whereasthou wast naked and bare.
16:8 Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy timewas the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee, and covered thynakedness: yea, I sware unto thee, and entered into a covenant withthee, saith the Lord GOD, and thou becamest mine.
16:9 Then washed I thee with water; yea, I throughly washed away thyblood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil.
16:10 I clothed thee also with broidered work, and shod thee withbadgers' skin, and I girded thee about with fine linen, and I coveredthee with silk.
16:11 I decked thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thyhands, and a chain on thy neck.
16:12 And I put a jewel on thy forehead, and earrings in thine ears,and a beautiful crown upon thine head.
16:13 Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment wasof fine linen, and silk, and broidered work; thou didst eat fineflour, and honey, and oil: and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thoudidst prosper into a kingdom.
16:14 And thy renown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty: forit was perfect through my comeliness, which I had put upon thee, saiththe Lord GOD.
16:15 But thou didst trust in thine own beauty, and playedst theharlot because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy fornications onevery one that passed by; his it was.
16:16 And of thy garments thou didst take, and deckedst thy highplaces with divers colours, and playedst the harlot thereupon: thelike things shall not come, neither shall it be so.
16:17 Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of mysilver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of men,and didst commit whoredom with them, 
16:18 And tookest thy broideredgarments, and coveredst them: and thou hast set mine oil and mineincense before them.
16:19 My meat also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey,wherewith I fed thee, thou hast even set it before them for a sweetsavour: and thus it was, saith the Lord GOD.
16:20 Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters, whom thouhast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to bedevoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter, 
16:21 That thouhast slain my children, and delivered them to cause them to passthrough the fire for them?  
16:22 And in all thine abominations andthy whoredoms thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, whenthou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy blood.
16:23 And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe untothee!  saith the LORD GOD;) 
16:24 That thou hast also built unto theean eminent place, and hast made thee an high place in every street.
16:25 Thou hast built thy high place at every head of the way, andhast made thy beauty to be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to everyone that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredoms.
16:26 Thou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thyneighbours, great of flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, toprovoke me to anger.
16:27 Behold, therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, andhave diminished thine ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the willof them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, which areashamed of thy lewd way.
16:28 Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thouwast unsatiable; yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and yetcouldest not be satisfied.
16:29 Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land ofCanaan unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not satisfied therewith.
16:30 How weak is thine heart, saith the LORD GOD, seeing thou doestall these things, the work of an imperious whorish woman; 
16:31 Inthat thou buildest thine eminent place in the head of every way, andmakest thine high place in every street; and hast not been as anharlot, in that thou scornest hire; 
16:32 But as a wife thatcommitteth adultery, which taketh strangers instead of her husband!
16:33 They give gifts to all whores: but thou givest thy gifts to allthy lovers, and hirest them, that they may come unto thee on everyside for thy whoredom.
16:34 And the contrary is in thee from other women in thy whoredoms,whereas none followeth thee to commit whoredoms: and in that thougivest a reward, and no reward is given unto thee, therefore thou artcontrary.
16:35 Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD: 
16:36 Thus saiththe Lord GOD; Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakednessdiscovered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all theidols of thy abominations, and by the blood of thy children, whichthou didst give unto them; 
16:37 Behold, therefore I will gather allthy lovers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all them that thouhast loved, with all them that thou hast hated; I will even gatherthem round about against thee, and will discover thy nakedness untothem, that they may see all thy nakedness.
16:38 And I will judge thee, as women that break wedlock and shedblood are judged; and I will give thee blood in fury and jealousy.
16:39 And I will also give thee into their hand, and they shall throwdown thine eminent place, and shall break down thy high places: theyshall strip thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels,and leave thee naked and bare.
16:40 They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shallstone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swords.
16:41 And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and executejudgments upon thee in the sight of many women: and I will cause theeto cease from playing the harlot, and thou also shalt give no hire anymore.
16:42 So will I make my fury toward thee to rest, and my jealousyshall depart from thee, and I will be quiet, and will be no moreangry.
16:43 Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, but hastfretted me in all these things; behold, therefore I also willrecompense thy way upon thine head, saith the Lord GOD: and thou shaltnot commit this lewdness above all thine abominations.
16:44 Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this proverbagainst thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
16:45 Thou art thy mother's daughter, that lotheth her husband and herchildren; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which lothed theirhusbands and their children: your mother was an Hittite, and yourfather an Amorite.
16:46 And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters thatdwell at thy left hand: and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thyright hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
16:47 Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, nor done after theirabominations: but, as if that were a very little thing, thou wastcorrupted more than they in all thy ways.
16:48 As I live, saith the Lord GOD, Sodom thy sister hath not done,she nor her daughters, as thou hast done, thou and thy daughters.
16:49 Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom, pride,fulness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in herdaughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.
16:50 And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me:therefore I took them away as I saw good.
16:51 Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy sins; but thou hastmultiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified thysisters in all thine abominations which thou hast done.
16:52 Thou also, which hast judged thy sisters, bear thine own shamefor thy sins that thou hast committed more abominable than they: theyare more righteous than thou: yea, be thou confounded also, and bearthy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters.
16:53 When I shall bring again their captivity, the captivity of Sodomand her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters,then will I bring again the captivity of thy captives in the midst ofthem: 
16:54 That thou mayest bear thine own shame, and mayest beconfounded in all that thou hast done, in that thou art a comfort untothem.
16:55 When thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to theirformer estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to theirformer estate, then thou and thy daughters shall return to your formerestate.
16:56 For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by thy mouth in the dayof thy pride, 
16:57 Before thy wickedness was discovered, as at thetime of thy reproach of the daughters of Syria, and all that are roundabout her, the daughters of the Philistines, which despise thee roundabout.
16:58 Thou hast borne thy lewdness and thine abominations, saith theLORD.
16:59 For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even deal with thee as thouhast done, which hast despised the oath in breaking the covenant.
16:60 Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with thee in the daysof thy youth, and I will establish unto thee an everlasting covenant.
16:61 Then thou shalt remember thy ways, and be ashamed, when thoushalt receive thy sisters, thine elder and thy younger: and I willgive them unto thee for daughters, but not by thy covenant.
16:62 And I will establish my covenant with thee; and thou shalt knowthat I am the LORD: 
16:63 That thou mayest remember, and beconfounded, and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame,when I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done, saith theLord GOD.
17:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
17:2 Son of man,put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel; 
17:3 And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; A great eagle with great wings,longwinged, full of feathers, which had divers colours, came untoLebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar: 
17:4 He cropped offthe top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land of traffick; heset it in a city of merchants.
17:5 He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in afruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and set it as a willowtree.
17:6 And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whosebranches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: soit became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.
17:7 There was also another great eagle with great wings and manyfeathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, andshot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by thefurrows of her plantation.
17:8 It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it mightbring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be agoodly vine.
17:9 Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he notpull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that itwither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even withoutgreat power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof.
17:10 Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it notutterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in thefurrows where it grew.
17:11 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
17:12 Saynow to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these things mean?  tellthem, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath takenthe king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him toBabylon; 
17:13 And hath taken of the king's seed, and made a covenantwith him, and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mightyof the land: 
17:14 That the kingdom might be base, that it might notlift itself up, but that by keeping of his covenant it might stand.
17:15 But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors intoEgypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall heprosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break thecovenant, and be delivered?  
17:16 As I live, saith the Lord GOD,surely in the place where the king dwelleth that made him king, whoseoath he despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him in themidst of Babylon he shall die.
17:17 Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great companymake for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, tocut off many persons: 
17:18 Seeing he despised the oath by breakingthe covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all thesethings, he shall not escape.
17:19 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely mine oaththat he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even itwill I recompense upon his own head.
17:20 And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in mysnare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him therefor his trespass that he hath trespassed against me.
17:21 And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by thesword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: andye shall know that I the LORD have spoken it.
17:22 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also take of the highest branchof the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top ofhis young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon an high mountainand eminent: 
17:23 In the mountain of the height of Israel will Iplant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be agoodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in theshadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell.
17:24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD havebrought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried upthe green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I the LORDhave spoken and have done it.
18:1 The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying, 
18:2 What meanye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying,The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are seton edge?  
18:3 As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not haveoccasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.
18:4 Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so alsothe soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.
18:5 But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right, 
18:6 And hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyesto the idols of the house of Israel, neither hath defiled hisneighbour's wife, neither hath come near to a menstruous woman, 
18:7 And hath not oppressed any, but hath restored to the debtor hispledge, hath spoiled none by violence, hath given his bread to thehungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment; 
18:8 He that hathnot given forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hathwithdrawn his hand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment betweenman and man, 
18:9 Hath walked in my statutes, and hath kept myjudgments, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, saith theLord GOD.
18:10 If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and thatdoeth the like to any one of these things, 
18:11 And that doeth notany of those duties, but even hath eaten upon the mountains, anddefiled his neighbour's wife, 
18:12 Hath oppressed the poor and needy,hath spoiled by violence, hath not restored the pledge, and hathlifted up his eyes to the idols, hath committed abomination, 
18:13 Hath given forth upon usury, and hath taken increase: shall he thenlive? he shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he shallsurely die; his blood shall be upon him.
18:14 Now, lo, if he beget a son, that seeth all his father's sinswhich he hath done, and considereth, and doeth not such like, 
18:15 That hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up hiseyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hath not defiled hisneighbour's wife, 
18:16 Neither hath oppressed any, hath notwithholden the pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hathgiven his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with agarment, 
18:17 That hath taken off his hand from the poor, that hathnot received usury nor increase, hath executed my judgments, hathwalked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of hisfather, he shall surely live.
18:18 As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, spoiled hisbrother by violence, and did that which is not good among his people,lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.
18:19 Yet say ye, Why? doth not the son bear the iniquity of thefather?  When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, andhath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live.
18:20 The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bear theiniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity ofthe son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and thewickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.
18:21 But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hathcommitted, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful andright, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
18:22 All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not bementioned unto him: in his righteousness that he hath done he shalllive.
18:23 Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? saith theLord GOD: and not that he should return from his ways, and live?
18:24 But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, andcommitteth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations thatthe wicked man doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that hehath done shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hathtrespassed, and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.
18:25 Yet ye say, The way of the LORD is not equal. Hear now, O houseof Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?  
18:26 Whena righteous man turneth away from his righteousness, and committethiniquity, and dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shallhe die.
18:27 Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness thathe hath committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shallsave his soul alive.
18:28 Because he considereth, and turneth away from all histransgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shallnot die.
18:29 Yet saith the house of Israel, The way of the LORD is not equal.O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal?
18:30 Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every oneaccording to his ways, saith the Lord GOD. Repent, and turn yourselvesfrom all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.
18:31 Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye havetransgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why willye die, O house of Israel?  
18:32 For I have no pleasure in the deathof him that dieth, saith the Lord GOD: wherefore turn yourselves, andlive ye.
19:1 Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
19:2 And say, What is thy mother? A lioness: she lay down among lions,she nourished her whelps among young lions.
19:3 And she brought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, andit learned to catch the prey; it devoured men.
19:4 The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, andthey brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt.
19:5 Now when she saw that she had waited, and her hope was lost, thenshe took another of her whelps, and made him a young lion.
19:6 And he went up and down among the lions, he became a young lion,and learned to catch the prey, and devoured men.
19:7 And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste theircities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by thenoise of his roaring.
19:8 Then the nations set against him on every side from theprovinces, and spread their net over him: he was taken in their pit.
19:9 And they put him in ward in chains, and brought him to the kingof Babylon: they brought him into holds, that his voice should no morebe heard upon the mountains of Israel.
19:10 Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters:she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters.
19:11 And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them that bare rule,and her stature was exalted among the thick branches, and she appearedin her height with the multitude of her branches.
19:12 But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground,and the east wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods were broken andwithered; the fire consumed them.
19:13 And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirstyground.
19:14 And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hathdevoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong rod to be a sceptre torule. This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.
20:1 And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, thetenth day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came toenquire of the LORD, and sat before me.
20:2 Then came the word of the LORD unto me, saying, 
20:3 Son of man,speak unto the elders of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith theLord GOD; Are ye come to enquire of me? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,I will not be enquired of by you.
20:4 Wilt thou judge them, son of man, wilt thou judge them? causethem to know the abominations of their fathers: 
20:5 And say untothem, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when I chose Israel, andlifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and mademyself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up minehand unto them, saying, I am the LORD your God; 
20:6 In the day that Ilifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land ofEgypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk andhoney, which is the glory of all lands: 
20:7 Then said I unto them,Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, and defile notyourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
20:8 But they rebelled against me, and would not hearken unto me: theydid not every man cast away the abominations of their eyes, neitherdid they forsake the idols of Egypt: then I said, I will pour out myfury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst ofthe land of Egypt.
20:9 But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be pollutedbefore the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myselfknown unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.
20:10 Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt,and brought them into the wilderness.
20:11 And I gave them my statutes, and shewed them my judgments, whichif a man do, he shall even live in them.
20:12 Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between meand them, that they might know that I am the LORD that sanctify them.
20:13 But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness:they walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, whichif a man do, he shall even live in them; and my sabbaths they greatlypolluted: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon them in thewilderness, to consume them.
20:14 But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be pollutedbefore the heathen, in whose sight I brought them out.
20:15 Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that Iwould not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowingwith milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands; 
20:16 Becausethey despised my judgments, and walked not in my statutes, butpolluted my sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.
20:17 Nevertheless mine eye spared them from destroying them, neitherdid I make an end of them in the wilderness.
20:18 But I said unto their children in the wilderness, Walk ye not inthe statutes of your fathers, neither observe their judgments, nordefile yourselves with their idols: 
20:19 I am the LORD your God; walkin my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them; 
20:20 And hallowmy sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that ye mayknow that I am the LORD your God.
20:21 Notwithstanding the children rebelled against me: they walkednot in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, which if aman do, he shall even live in them; they polluted my sabbaths: then Isaid, I would pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my angeragainst them in the wilderness.
20:22 Nevertheless I withdrew mine hand, and wrought for my name'ssake, that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen, inwhose sight I brought them forth.
20:23 I lifted up mine hand unto them also in the wilderness, that Iwould scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them through thecountries; 
20:24 Because they had not executed my judgments, but haddespised my statutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyeswere after their fathers' idols.
20:25 Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, andjudgments whereby they should not live; 
20:26 And I polluted them intheir own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all thatopeneth the womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end thatthey might know that I am the LORD.
20:27 Therefore, son of man, speak unto the house of Israel, and sayunto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Yet in this your fathers haveblasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.
20:28 For when I had brought them into the land, for the which Ilifted up mine hand to give it to them, then they saw every high hill,and all the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, andthere they presented the provocation of their offering: there alsothey made their sweet savour, and poured out there their drinkofferings.
20:29 Then I said unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go?And the name whereof is called Bamah unto this day.
20:30 Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? and commit yewhoredom after their abominations?  
20:31 For when ye offer yourgifts, when ye make your sons to pass through the fire, ye polluteyourselves with all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I beenquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,I will not be enquired of by you.
20:32 And that which cometh into your mind shall not be at all, thatye say, We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries,to serve wood and stone.
20:33 As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand, andwith a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, will I rule overyou: 
20:34 And I will bring you out from the people, and will gatheryou out of the countries wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand,and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out.
20:35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, andthere will I plead with you face to face.
20:36 Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of theland of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD.
20:37 And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring youinto the bond of the covenant: 
20:38 And I will purge out from amongyou the rebels, and them that transgress against me: I will bring themforth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enterinto the land of Israel: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
20:39 As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD; Go ye,serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will nothearken unto me: but pollute ye my holy name no more with your gifts,and with your idols.
20:40 For in mine holy mountain, in the mountain of the height ofIsrael, saith the Lord GOD, there shall all the house of Israel, allof them in the land, serve me: there will I accept them, and therewill I require your offerings, and the firstfruits of your oblations,with all your holy things.
20:41 I will accept you with your sweet savour, when I bring you outfrom the people, and gather you out of the countries wherein ye havebeen scattered; and I will be sanctified in you before the heathen.
20:42 And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall bring youinto the land of Israel, into the country for the which I lifted upmine hand to give it to your fathers.
20:43 And there shall ye remember your ways, and all your doings,wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall lothe yourselves in yourown sight for all your evils that ye have committed.
20:44 And ye shall know that I am the LORD when I have wrought withyou for my name's sake, not according to your wicked ways, noraccording to your corrupt doings, O ye house of Israel, saith the LordGOD.
20:45 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
20:46 Son ofman, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy word toward thesouth, and prophesy against the forest of the south field; 
20:47 Andsay to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the LORD; Thus saiththe Lord GOD; Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shalldevour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flameshall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shallbe burned therein.
20:48 And all flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it: itshall not be quenched.
20:49 Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! they say of me, Doth he not speakparables?  
21:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
21:2 Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy word towardthe holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel, 
21:3 And sayto the land of Israel, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I am against thee,and will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and will cut off fromthee the righteous and the wicked.
21:4 Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the righteous and thewicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath againstall flesh from the south to the north: 
21:5 That all flesh may knowthat I the LORD have drawn forth my sword out of his sheath: it shallnot return any more.
21:6 Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of thy loins;and with bitterness sigh before their eyes.
21:7 And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore sighest thou?that thou shalt answer, For the tidings; because it cometh: and everyheart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spiritshall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water: behold, it cometh,and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord GOD.
21:8 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
21:9 Son of man,prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD; Say, A sword, a sword issharpened, and also furbished: 
21:10 It is sharpened to make a soreslaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then makemirth? it contemneth the rod of my son, as every tree.
21:11 And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may be handled:this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to give it into the handof the slayer.
21:12 Cry and howl, son of man: for it shall be upon my people, itshall be upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of thesword shall be upon my people: smite therefore upon thy thigh.
21:13 Because it is a trial, and what if the sword contemn even therod?  it shall be no more, saith the Lord GOD.
21:14 Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine handstogether. and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword ofthe slain: it is the sword of the great men that are slain, whichentereth into their privy chambers.
21:15 I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, thattheir heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is madebright, it is wrapped up for the slaughter.
21:16 Go thee one way or other, either on the right hand, or on theleft, whithersoever thy face is set.
21:17 I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my furyto rest: I the LORD have said it.
21:18 The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying, 
21:19 Also,thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king ofBabylon may come: both twain shall come forth out of one land: andchoose thou a place, choose it at the head of the way to the city.
21:20 Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Rabbath of theAmmonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defenced.
21:21 For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at thehead of the two ways, to use divination: he made his arrows bright, heconsulted with images, he looked in the liver.
21:22 At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appointcaptains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voicewith shouting, to appoint battering rams against the gates, to cast amount, and to build a fort.
21:23 And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight,to them that have sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance theiniquity, that they may be taken.
21:24 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have made youriniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are discovered,so that in all your doings your sins do appear; because, I say, thatye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand.
21:25 And thou, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come,when iniquity shall have an end, 
21:26 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Removethe diadem, and take off the crown: this shall not be the same: exalthim that is low, and abase him that is high.
21:27 I will overturn, overturn, overturn, it: and it shall be nomore, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it him.
21:28 And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GODconcerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; even saythou, The sword, the sword is drawn: for the slaughter it isfurbished, to consume because of the glittering: 
21:29 Whiles they seevanity unto thee, whiles they divine a lie unto thee, to bring theeupon the necks of them that are slain, of the wicked, whose day iscome, when their iniquity shall have an end.
21:30 Shall I cause it to return into his sheath? I will judge thee inthe place where thou wast created, in the land of thy nativity.
21:31 And I will pour out mine indignation upon thee, I will blowagainst thee in the fire of my wrath, and deliver thee into the handof brutish men, and skilful to destroy.
21:32 Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall be in themidst of the land; thou shalt be no more remembered: for I the LORDhave spoken it.
22:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
22:2 Now,thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the bloody city?yea, thou shalt shew her all her abominations.
22:3 Then say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD, The city sheddeth bloodin the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols againstherself to defile herself.
22:4 Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hastdefiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hastcaused thy days to draw near, and art come even unto thy years:therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a mockingto all countries.
22:5 Those that be near, and those that be far from thee, shall mockthee, which art infamous and much vexed.
22:6 Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in thee to theirpower to shed blood.
22:7 In thee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst ofthee have they dealt by oppression with the stranger: in thee havethey vexed the fatherless and the widow.
22:8 Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned mysabbaths.
22:9 In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee theyeat upon the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness.
22:10 In thee have they discovered their fathers' nakedness: in theehave they humbled her that was set apart for pollution.
22:11 And one hath committed abomination with his neighbour's wife;and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter in law; and another inthee hath humbled his sister, his father's daughter.
22:12 In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast takenusury and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbours byextortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord GOD.
22:13 Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dishonest gainwhich thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the midst ofthee.
22:14 Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in thedays that I shall deal with thee? I the LORD have spoken it, and willdo it.
22:15 And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee inthe countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee.
22:16 And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight ofthe heathen, and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.
22:17 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
22:18 Son of man,the house of Israel is to me become dross: all they are brass, andtin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are eventhe dross of silver.
22:19 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye are all becomedross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst ofJerusalem.
22:20 As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin,into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it;so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leaveyou there, and melt you.
22:21 Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the fire of mywrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst therof.
22:22 As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye bemelted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the LORD havepoured out my fury upon you.
22:23 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
22:24 Son of man,say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor rained uponin the day of indignation.
22:25 There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, likea roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they havetaken the treasure and precious things; they have made her many widowsin the midst thereof.
22:26 Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holythings: they have put no difference between the holy and profane,neither have they shewed difference between the unclean and the clean,and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned amongthem.
22:27 Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening theprey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain.
22:28 And her prophets have daubed them with untempered morter, seeingvanity, and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord GOD,when the LORD hath not spoken.
22:29 The people of the land have used oppression, and exercisedrobbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressedthe stranger wrongfully.
22:30 And I sought for a man among them, that should make up thehedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should notdestroy it: but I found none.
22:31 Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them; I haveconsumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have Irecompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord GOD.
23:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
23:2 Son of man,there were two women, the daughters of one mother: 
23:3 And theycommitted whoredoms in Egypt; they committed whoredoms in their youth:there were their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats oftheir virginity.
23:4 And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah hersister: and they were mine, and they bare sons and daughters. Thuswere their names; Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.
23:5 And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted onher lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbours, 
23:6 Which were clothedwith blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men,horsemen riding upon horses.
23:7 Thus she committed her whoredoms with them, with all them thatwere the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom she doted: withall their idols she defiled herself.
23:8 Neither left she her whoredoms brought from Egypt: for in heryouth they lay with her, and they bruised the breasts of hervirginity, and poured their whoredom upon her.
23:9 Wherefore I have delivered her into the hand of her lovers, intothe hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.
23:10 These discovered her nakedness: they took her sons and herdaughters, and slew her with the sword: and she became famous amongwomen; for they had executed judgment upon her.
23:11 And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was more corrupt inher inordinate love than she, and in her whoredoms more than hersister in her whoredoms.
23:12 She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbours, captains and rulersclothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of themdesirable young men.
23:13 Then I saw that she was defiled, that they took both one way,
23:14 And that she increased her whoredoms: for when she saw menpourtrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans pourtrayed withvermilion, 
23:15 Girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding indyed attire upon their heads, all of them princes to look to, afterthe manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their nativity:
23:16 And as soon as she saw them with her eyes, she doted upon them,and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea.
23:17 And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and theydefiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with them, andher mind was alienated from them.
23:18 So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness:then my mind was alienated from her, like as my mind was alienatedfrom her sister.
23:19 Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to remembrance thedays of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land ofEgypt.
23:20 For she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the fleshof asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.
23:21 Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, inbruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy youth.
23:22 Therefore, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I willraise up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy mind is alienated, andI will bring them against thee on every side; 
23:23 The Babylonians,and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrianswith them: all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, greatlords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.
23:24 And they shall come against thee with chariots, wagons, andwheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against theebuckler and shield and helmet round about: and I will set judgmentbefore them, and they shall judge thee according to their judgments.
23:25 And I will set my jealousy against thee, and they shall dealfuriously with thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; andthy remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thydaughters; and thy residue shall be devoured by the fire.
23:26 They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes, and take away thyfair jewels.
23:27 Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from thee, and thywhoredom brought from the land of Egypt: so that thou shalt not liftup thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more.
23:28 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver thee intothe hand of them whom thou hatest, into the hand of them from whom thymind is alienated: 
23:29 And they shall deal with thee hatefully, andshall take away all thy labour, and shall leave thee naked and bare:and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be discovered, both thylewdness and thy whoredoms.
23:30 I will do these things unto thee, because thou hast gone awhoring after the heathen, and because thou art polluted with theiridols.
23:31 Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefore will I giveher cup into thine hand.
23:32 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou shalt drink of thy sister's cupdeep and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorn and had in derision; itcontaineth much.
23:33 Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cupof astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria.
23:34 Thou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt breakthe sherds thereof, and pluck off thine own breasts: for I have spokenit, saith the Lord GOD.
23:35 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgottenme, and cast me behind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdnessand thy whoredoms.
23:36 The LORD said moreover unto me; Son of man, wilt thou judgeAholah and Aholibah? yea, declare unto them their abominations; 
23:37 That they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, andwith their idols have they committed adultery, and have also causedtheir sons, whom they bare unto me, to pass for them through the fire,to devour them.
23:38 Moreover this they have done unto me: they have defiled mysanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.
23:39 For when they had slain their children to their idols, then theycame the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus havethey done in the midst of mine house.
23:40 And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to come from far,unto whom a messenger was sent; and, lo, they came: for whom thoudidst wash thyself, paintedst thy eyes, and deckedst thyself withornaments, 
23:41 And satest upon a stately bed, and a table preparedbefore it, whereupon thou hast set mine incense and mine oil.
23:42 And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and withthe men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness,which put bracelets upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon theirheads.
23:43 Then said I unto her that was old in adulteries, Will they nowcommit whoredoms with her, and she with them?  
23:44 Yet they went inunto her, as they go in unto a woman that playeth the harlot: so wentthey in unto Aholah and unto Aholibah, the lewd women.
23:45 And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the manner ofadulteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; becausethey are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
23:46 For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will bring up a company uponthem, and will give them to be removed and spoiled.
23:47 And the company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch themwith their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, andburn up their houses with fire.
23:48 Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that allwomen may be taught not to do after your lewdness.
23:49 And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and ye shallbear the sins of your idols: and ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
24:1 Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day ofthe month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
24:2 Son of man,write thee the name of the day, even of this same day: the king ofBabylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day.
24:3 And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them,Thus saith the Lord GOD; Set on a pot, set it on, and also pour waterinto it: 
24:4 Gather the pieces thereof into it, even every goodpiece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.
24:5 Take the choice of the flock, and burn also the bones under it,and make it boil well, and let them seethe the bones of it therein.
24:6 Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city, to thepot whose scum is therein, and whose scum is not gone out of it! bringit out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it.
24:7 For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the top ofa rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with dust; 
24:8 That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance; I have set herblood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered.
24:9 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city! I willeven make the pile for fire great.
24:10 Heap on wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and spice itwell, and let the bones be burned.
24:11 Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that the brass of itmay be hot, and may burn, and that the filthiness of it may be moltenin it, that the scum of it may be consumed.
24:12 She hath wearied herself with lies, and her great scum went notforth out of her: her scum shall be in the fire.
24:13 In thy filthiness is lewdness: because I have purged thee, andthou wast not purged, thou shalt not be purged from thy filthiness anymore, till I have caused my fury to rest upon thee.
24:14 I the LORD have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will doit; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent;according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, shall they judgethee, saith the Lord GOD.
24:15 Also the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
24:16 Son ofman, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with astroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tearsrun down.
24:17 Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead, bind the tire ofthine head upon thee, and put on thy shoes upon thy feet, and covernot thy lips, and eat not the bread of men.
24:18 So I spake unto the people in the morning: and at even my wifedied; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.
24:19 And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell us what thesethings are to us, that thou doest so?  
24:20 Then I answered them, Theword of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
24:21 Speak unto the house ofIsrael, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will profane my sanctuary,the excellency of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and thatwhich your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom ye haveleft shall fall by the sword.
24:22 And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover your lips,nor eat the bread of men.
24:23 And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoes uponyour feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away foryour iniquities, and mourn one toward another.
24:24 Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: according to all that he hathdone shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye shall know that I am theLord GOD.
24:25 Also, thou son of man, shall it not be in the day when I takefrom them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of theireyes, and that whereupon they set their minds, their sons and theirdaughters, 
24:26 That he that escapeth in that day shall come untothee, to cause thee to hear it with thine ears?  
24:27 In that dayshall thy mouth be opened to him which is escaped, and thou shaltspeak, and be no more dumb: and thou shalt be a sign unto them; andthey shall know that I am the LORD.
25:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
25:2 Son of man,set thy face against the Ammonites, and prophesy against them; 
25:3 And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saiththe Lord GOD; Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when itwas profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was desolate;and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity; 
25:4 Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of the east for apossession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make theirdwellings in thee: they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thymilk.
25:5 And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the Ammonites acouching place for flocks: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
25:6 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast clapped thinehands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced in heart with all thydespite against the land of Israel; 
25:7 Behold, therefore I willstretch out mine hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil tothe heathen; and I will cut thee off from the people, and I will causethee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee; and thoushalt know that I am the LORD.
25:8 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Moab and Seir do say,Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the heathen; 
25:9 Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, fromhis cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country,Bethjeshimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim, 
25:10 Unto the men of theeast with the Ammonites, and will give them in possession, that theAmmonites may not be remembered among the nations.
25:11 And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and they shall know thatI am the LORD.
25:12 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Edom hath dealt againstthe house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, andrevenged himself upon them; 
25:13 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Iwill also stretch out mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man andbeast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; and they ofDedan shall fall by the sword.
25:14 And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my peopleIsrael: and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger andaccording to my fury; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the LordGOD.
25:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because the Philistines have dealt byrevenge, and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart, to destroyit for the old hatred; 
25:16 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD;Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines, and I willcut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.
25:17 And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furiousrebukes; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall lay myvengeance upon them.
26:1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day of themonth, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
26:2 Son ofman, because that Tyrus hath said against Jerusalem, Aha, she isbroken that was the gates of the people: she is turned unto me: Ishall be replenished, now she is laid waste: 
26:3 Therefore thus saiththe Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause manynations to come up against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to comeup.
26:4 And they shall destroy the walls of Tyrus, and break down hertowers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her like thetop of a rock.
26:5 It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of thesea: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD: and it shall become aspoil to the nations.
26:6 And her daughters which are in the field shall be slain by thesword; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
26:7 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring upon TyrusNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north, withhorses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and companies, and muchpeople.
26:8 He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the field: and heshall make a fort against thee, and cast a mount against thee, andlift up the buckler against thee.
26:9 And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with hisaxes he shall break down thy towers.
26:10 By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall coverthee: thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of thewheels, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gates, asmen enter into a city wherein is made a breach.
26:11 With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all thystreets: he shall slay thy people by the sword, and thy stronggarrisons shall go down to the ground.
26:12 And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and make a prey ofthy merchandise: and they shall break down thy walls, and destroy thypleasant houses: and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thydust in the midst of the water.
26:13 And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease; and the soundof thy harps shall be no more heard.
26:14 And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be aplace to spread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the LORDhave spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.
26:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD to Tyrus; Shall not the isles shake atthe sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughter ismade in the midst of thee?  
26:16 Then all the princes of the seashall come down from their thrones, and lay away their robes, and putoff their broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves withtrembling; they shall sit upon the ground, and shall tremble at everymoment, and be astonished at thee.
26:17 And they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and say to thee,How art thou destroyed, that wast inhabited of seafaring men, therenowned city, which wast strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants,which cause their terror to be on all that haunt it!  
26:18 Now shallthe isles tremble in the day of thy fall; yea, the isles that are inthe sea shall be troubled at thy departure.
26:19 For thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall make thee a desolatecity, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I shall bring upthe deep upon thee, and great waters shall cover thee; 
26:20 When Ishall bring thee down with them that descend into the pit, with thepeople of old time, and shall set thee in the low parts of the earth,in places desolate of old, with them that go down to the pit, thatthou be not inhabited; and I shall set glory in the land of theliving; 
26:21 I will make thee a terror, and thou shalt be no more:though thou be sought for, yet shalt thou never be found again, saiththe Lord GOD.
27:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
27:2 Now, thouson of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrus; 
27:3 And say unto Tyrus,O thou that art situate at the entry of the sea, which art a merchantof the people for many isles, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O Tyrus, thouhast said, I am of perfect beauty.
27:4 Thy borders are in the midst of the seas, thy builders haveperfected thy beauty.
27:5 They have made all thy ship boards of fir trees of Senir: theyhave taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for thee.
27:6 Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the company ofthe Ashurites have made thy benches of ivory, brought out of the islesof Chittim.
27:7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thouspreadest forth to be thy sail; blue and purple from the isles ofElishah was that which covered thee.
27:8 The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy mariners: thy wisemen, O Tyrus, that were in thee, were thy pilots.
27:9 The ancients of Gebal and the wise men thereof were in thee thycalkers: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in thee tooccupy thy merchandise.
27:10 They of Persia and of Lud and of Phut were in thine army, thymen of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in thee; they set forththy comeliness.
27:11 The men of Arvad with thine army were upon thy walls roundabout, and the Gammadims were in thy towers: they hanged their shieldsupon thy walls round about; they have made thy beauty perfect.
27:12 Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kindof riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy fairs.
27:13 Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were thy merchants: they tradedthe persons of men and vessels of brass in thy market.
27:14 They of the house of Togarmah traded in thy fairs with horsesand horsemen and mules.
27:15 The men of Dedan were thy merchants; many isles were themerchandise of thine hand: they brought thee for a present horns ofivory and ebony.
27:16 Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the waresof thy making: they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds, purple, andbroidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and agate.
27:17 Judah, and the land of Israel, they were thy merchants: theytraded in thy market wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honey, and oil,and balm.
27:18 Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thymaking, for the multitude of all riches; in the wine of Helbon, andwhite wool.
27:19 Dan also and Javan going to and fro occupied in thy fairs:bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in thy market.
27:20 Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots.
27:21 Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with thee inlambs, and rams, and goats: in these were they thy merchants.
27:22 The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they were thy merchants: theyoccupied in thy fairs with chief of all spices, and with all preciousstones, and gold.
27:23 Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, andChilmad, were thy merchants.
27:24 These were thy merchants in all sorts of things, in blueclothes, and broidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound withcords, and made of cedar, among thy merchandise.
27:25 The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market: and thouwast replenished, and made very glorious in the midst of the seas.
27:26 Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters: the east windhath broken thee in the midst of the seas.
27:27 Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy mariners, andthy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise, and allthy men of war, that are in thee, and in all thy company which is inthe midst of thee, shall fall into the midst of the seas in the day ofthy ruin.
27:28 The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots.
27:29 And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots ofthe sea, shall come down from their ships, they shall stand upon theland; 
27:30 And shall cause their voice to be heard against thee, andshall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon their heads, theyshall wallow themselves in the ashes: 
27:31 And they shall makethemselves utterly bald for thee, and gird them with sackcloth, andthey shall weep for thee with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.
27:32 And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee,and lament over thee, saying, What city is like Tyrus, like thedestroyed in the midst of the sea?  
27:33 When thy wares went forthout of the seas, thou filledst many people; thou didst enrich thekings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thymerchandise.
27:34 In the time when thou shalt be broken by the seas in the depthsof the waters thy merchandise and all thy company in the midst of theeshall fall.
27:35 All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at thee,and their kings shall be sore afraid, they shall be troubled in theircountenance.
27:36 The merchants among the people shall hiss at thee; thou shalt bea terror, and never shalt be any more.
28:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
28:2 Son of man,say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thineheart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seatof God, in the midst of the seas; yet thou art a man, and not God,though thou set thine heart as the heart of God: 
28:3 Behold, thou artwiser than Daniel; there is no secret that they can hide from thee:
28:4 With thy wisdom and with thine understanding thou hast gottenthee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures: 
28:5 By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thyriches, and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches: 
28:6 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast set thine heartas the heart of God; 
28:7 Behold, therefore I will bring strangersupon thee, the terrible of the nations: and they shall draw theirswords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thybrightness.
28:8 They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shalt die thedeaths of them that are slain in the midst of the seas.
28:9 Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? butthou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hand of him that slayeth thee.
28:10 Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised by the hand ofstrangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.
28:11 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
28:12 Son ofman, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him,Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, andperfect in beauty.
28:13 Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God; every precious stonewas thy covering, the sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, theonyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle,and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was preparedin thee in the day that thou wast created.
28:14 Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set theeso: thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up anddown in the midst of the stones of fire.
28:15 Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wastcreated, till iniquity was found in thee.
28:16 By the multitude of thy merchandise they have filled the midstof thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will castthee as profane out of the mountain of God: and I will destroy thee, Ocovering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
28:17 Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty, thou hastcorrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I will cast thee tothe ground, I will lay thee before kings, that they may behold thee.
28:18 Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thineiniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I bringforth a fire from the midst of thee, it shall devour thee, and I willbring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them thatbehold thee.
28:19 All they that know thee among the people shall be astonished atthee: thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be any more.
28:20 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
28:21 Son ofman, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesy against it, 
28:22 Andsay, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Zidon; andI will be glorified in the midst of thee: and they shall know that Iam the LORD, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall besanctified in her.
28:23 For I will send into her pestilence, and blood into her streets;and the wounded shall be judged in the midst of her by the sword uponher on every side; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
28:24 And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto the house ofIsrael, nor any grieving thorn of all that are round about them, thatdespised them; and they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
28:25 Thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall have gathered the house ofIsrael from the people among whom they are scattered, and shall besanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, then shall they dwellin their land that I have given to my servant Jacob.
28:26 And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall build houses, andplant vineyards; yea, they shall dwell with confidence, when I haveexecuted judgments upon all those that despise them round about them;and they shall know that I am the LORD their God.
29:1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of themonth, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
29:2 Son of man, setthy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, andagainst all Egypt: 
29:3 Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD;Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragonthat lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath said, My river ismine own, and I have made it for myself.
29:4 But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish ofthy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out ofthe midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stickunto thy scales.
29:5 And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness, thee and allthe fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thoushalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee formeat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven.
29:6 And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD,because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.
29:7 When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, andrend all their shoulder: and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest,and madest all their loins to be at a stand.
29:8 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring a swordupon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee.
29:9 And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shallknow that I am the LORD: because he hath said, The river is mine, andI have made it.
29:10 Behold, therefore I am against thee, and against thy rivers, andI will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from thetower of Syene even unto the border of Ethiopia.
29:11 No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shallpass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
29:12 And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of thecountries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that arelaid waste shall be desolate forty years: and I will scatter theEgyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through thecountries.
29:13 Yet thus saith the Lord GOD; At the end of forty years will Igather the Egyptians from the people whither they were scattered:
29:14 And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and will causethem to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of theirhabitation; and they shall be there a base kingdom.
29:15 It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it exaltitself any more above the nations: for I will diminish them, that theyshall no more rule over the nations.
29:16 And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel,which bringeth their iniquity to remembrance, when they shall lookafter them: but they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
29:17 And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in thefirst month, in the first day of the month, the word of the LORD cameunto me, saying, 
29:18 Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babyloncaused his army to serve a great service against Tyrus: every head wasmade bald, and every shoulder was peeled: yet had he no wages, nor hisarmy, for Tyrus, for the service that he had served against it: 
29:19 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will give the land ofEgypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall take hermultitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be thewages for his army.
29:20 I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour wherewith heserved against it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord GOD.
29:21 In that day will I cause the horn of the house of Israel to budforth, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst ofthem; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
30:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
30:2 Son of man,prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Howl ye, Woe worth the day!
30:3 For the day is near, even the day of the LORD is near, a cloudyday; it shall be the time of the heathen.
30:4 And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and great pain shall be inEthiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall take awayher multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.
30:5 Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the mingled people, andChub, and the men of the land that is in league, shall fall with themby the sword.
30:6 Thus saith the LORD; They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; andthe pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Syene shallthey fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord GOD.
30:7 And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that aredesolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that arewasted.
30:8 And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have set a fire inEgypt, and when all her helpers shall be destroyed.
30:9 In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships to makethe careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shall come upon them,as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh.
30:10 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also make the multitude of Egyptto cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon.
30:11 He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shallbe brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their swordsagainst Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.
30:12 And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the handof the wicked: and I will make the land waste, and all that istherein, by the hand of strangers: I the LORD have spoken it.
30:13 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also destroy the idols, and Iwill cause their images to cease out of Noph; and there shall be nomore a prince of the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the landof Egypt.
30:14 And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, andwill execute judgments in No.
30:15 And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and Iwill cut off the multitude of No.
30:16 And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great pain, and Noshall be rent asunder, and Noph shall have distresses daily.
30:17 The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword:and these cities shall go into captivity.
30:18 At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, when I shallbreak there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shallcease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughtersshall go into captivity.
30:19 Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know thatI am the LORD.
30:20 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, inthe seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,saying, 
30:21 Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king ofEgypt; and, lo, it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a rollerto bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword.
30:22 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against Pharaohking of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which wasbroken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
30:23 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and willdisperse them through the countries.
30:24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and putmy sword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shallgroan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.
30:25 But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and thearms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am theLORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon,and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.
30:26 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and dispersethem among the countries; and they shall know that I am the LORD.
31:1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, inthe first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,saying, 
31:2 Son of man, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to hismultitude; Whom art thou like in thy greatness?  
31:3 Behold, theAssyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with ashadowing shroud, and of an high stature; and his top was among thethick boughs.
31:4 The waters made him great, the deep set him up on high with herrivers running round about his plants, and sent her little rivers untoall the trees of the field.
31:5 Therefore his height was exalted above all the trees of thefield, and his boughs were multiplied, and his branches became longbecause of the multitude of waters, when he shot forth.
31:6 All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his boughs, and underhis branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young,and under his shadow dwelt all great nations.
31:7 Thus was he fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches:for his root was by great waters.
31:8 The cedars in the garden of God could not hide him: the fir treeswere not like his boughs, and the chestnut trees were not like hisbranches; nor any tree in the garden of God was like unto him in hisbeauty.
31:9 I have made him fair by the multitude of his branches: so thatall the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied him.
31:10 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast lifted upthyself in height, and he hath shot up his top among the thick boughs,and his heart is lifted up in his height; 
31:11 I have thereforedelivered him into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen; he shallsurely deal with him: I have driven him out for his wickedness.
31:12 And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off,and have left him: upon the mountains and in all the valleys hisbranches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the rivers ofthe land; and all the people of the earth are gone down from hisshadow, and have left him.
31:13 Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven remain, and allthe beasts of the field shall be upon his branches: 
31:14 To the endthat none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for theirheight, neither shoot up their top among the thick boughs, neithertheir trees stand up in their height, all that drink water: for theyare all delivered unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in themidst of the children of men, with them that go down to the pit.
31:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when he went down to thegrave I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and Irestrained the floods thereof, and the great waters were stayed: and Icaused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the fieldfainted for him.
31:16 I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when Icast him down to hell with them that descend into the pit: and all thetrees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water,shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth.
31:17 They also went down into hell with him unto them that be slainwith the sword; and they that were his arm, that dwelt under hisshadow in the midst of the heathen.
31:18 To whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among thetrees of Eden? yet shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Edenunto the nether parts of the earth: thou shalt lie in the midst of theuncircumcised with them that be slain by the sword. This is Pharaohand all his multitude, saith the Lord GOD.
32:1 And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, inthe first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,saying, 
32:2 Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king ofEgypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the nations,and thou art as a whale in the seas: and thou camest forth with thyrivers, and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and fouledst theirrivers.
32:3 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will therefore spread out my net overthee with a company of many people; and they shall bring thee up in mynet.
32:4 Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth uponthe open field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remainupon thee, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee.
32:5 And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleyswith thy height.
32:6 I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest,even to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of thee.
32:7 And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and makethe stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and themoon shall not give her light.
32:8 All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, andset darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord GOD.
32:9 I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bring thydestruction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast notknown.
32:10 Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kingsshall be horribly afraid for thee, when I shall brandish my swordbefore them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for hisown life, in the day of thy fall.
32:11 For thus saith the Lord GOD; The sword of the king of Babylonshall come upon thee.
32:12 By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to fall,the terrible of the nations, all of them: and they shall spoil thepomp of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall be destroyed.
32:13 I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from beside the greatwaters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor thehoofs of beasts trouble them.
32:14 Then will I make their waters deep, and cause their rivers torun like oil, saith the Lord GOD.
32:15 When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the countryshall be destitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall smite allthem that dwell therein, then shall they know that I am the LORD.
32:16 This is the lamentation wherewith they shall lament her: thedaughters of the nations shall lament her: they shall lament for her,even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, saith the Lord GOD.
32:17 It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth dayof the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
32:18 Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, evenher, and the daughters of the famous nations, unto the nether parts ofthe earth, with them that go down into the pit.
32:19 Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou laid withthe uncircumcised.
32:20 They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by thesword: she is delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitudes.
32:21 The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midstof hell with them that help him: they are gone down, they lieuncircumcised, slain by the sword.
32:22 Asshur is there and all her company: his graves are about him:all of them slain, fallen by the sword: 
32:23 Whose graves are set inthe sides of the pit, and her company is round about her grave: all ofthem slain, fallen by the sword, which caused terror in the land ofthe living.
32:24 There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave, allof them slain, fallen by the sword, which are gone down uncircumcisedinto the nether parts of the earth, which caused their terror in theland of the living; yet have they borne their shame with them that godown to the pit.
32:25 They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all hermultitude: her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised,slain by the sword: though their terror was caused in the land of theliving, yet have they borne their shame with them that go down to thepit: he is put in the midst of them that be slain.
32:26 There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude: her graves areround about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, thoughthey caused their terror in the land of the living.
32:27 And they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of theuncircumcised, which are gone down to hell with their weapons of war:and they have laid their swords under their heads, but theiriniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror ofthe mighty in the land of the living.
32:28 Yea, thou shalt be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, andshalt lie with them that are slain with the sword.
32:29 There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, which with theirmight are laid by them that were slain by the sword: they shall liewith the uncircumcised, and with them that go down to the pit.
32:30 There be the princes of the north, all of them, and all theZidonians, which are gone down with the slain; with their terror theyare ashamed of their might; and they lie uncircumcised with them thatbe slain by the sword, and bear their shame with them that go down tothe pit.
32:31 Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all hismultitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword, saith theLord GOD.
32:32 For I have caused my terror in the land of the living: and heshall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that areslain with the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith theLord GOD.
33:1 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
33:2 Son of man,speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bringthe sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man of theircoasts, and set him for their watchman: 
33:3 If when he seeth thesword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;
33:4 Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh notwarning; if the sword come, and take him away, his blood shall be uponhis own head.
33:5 He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; hisblood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver hissoul.
33:6 But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet,and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take any personfrom among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood willI require at the watchman's hand.
33:7 So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the houseof Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warnthem from me.
33:8 When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die;if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wickedman shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thinehand.
33:9 Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it;if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thouhast delivered thy soul.
33:10 Therefore, O thou son of man, speak unto the house of Israel;Thus ye speak, saying, If our transgressions and our sins be upon us,and we pine away in them, how should we then live?  
33:11 Say untothem, As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the deathof the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turnye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house ofIsrael?  
33:12 Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children ofthy people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver himin the day of his transgression: as for the wickedness of the wicked,he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from hiswickedness; neither shall the righteous be able to live for hisrighteousness in the day that he sinneth.
33:13 When I shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely live; ifhe trust to his own righteousness, and commit iniquity, all hisrighteousnesses shall not be remembered; but for his iniquity that hehath committed, he shall die for it.
33:14 Again, when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; if heturn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right; 
33:15 If thewicked restore the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in thestatutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely live,he shall not die.
33:16 None of his sins that he hath committed shall be mentioned untohim: he hath done that which is lawful and right; he shall surelylive.
33:17 Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is notequal: but as for them, their way is not equal.
33:18 When the righteous turneth from his righteousness, andcommitteth iniquity, he shall even die thereby.
33:19 But if the wicked turn from his wickedness, and do that which islawful and right, he shall live thereby.
33:20 Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal. O ye house ofIsrael, I will judge you every one after his ways.
33:21 And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in thetenth month, in the fifth day of the month, that one that had escapedout of Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The city is smitten.
33:22 Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in the evening, afore hethat was escaped came; and had opened my mouth, until he came to me inthe morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.
33:23 Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
33:24 Son ofman, they that inhabit those wastes of the land of Israel speak,saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited the land: but we are many;the land is given us for inheritance.
33:25 Wherefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Ye eat withthe blood, and lift up your eyes toward your idols, and shed blood:and shall ye possess the land?  
33:26 Ye stand upon your sword, yework abomination, and ye defile every one his neighbour's wife: andshall ye possess the land?  
33:27 Say thou thus unto them, Thus saiththe Lord GOD; As I live, surely they that are in the wastes shall fallby the sword, and him that is in the open field will I give to thebeasts to be devoured, and they that be in the forts and in the cavesshall die of the pestilence.
33:28 For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of herstrength shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate,that none shall pass through.
33:29 Then shall they know that I am the LORD, when I have laid theland most desolate because of all their abominations which they havecommitted.
33:30 Also, thou son of man, the children of thy people still aretalking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, andspeak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I prayyou, and hear what is the word that cometh forth from the LORD.
33:31 And they come unto thee as the people cometh, and they sitbefore thee as my people, and they hear thy words, but they will notdo them: for with their mouth they shew much love, but their heartgoeth after their covetousness.
33:32 And, lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song of one thathath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument: for theyhear thy words, but they do them not.
33:33 And when this cometh to pass, (lo, it will come,) then shallthey know that a prophet hath been among them.
34:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
34:2 Son of man,prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say unto them,Thus saith the Lord GOD unto the shepherds; Woe be to the shepherds ofIsrael that do feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed theflocks?  
34:3 Ye eat the fat, and ye clothe you with the wool, ye killthem that are fed: but ye feed not the flock.
34:4 The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healedthat which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken,neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither haveye sought that which was lost; but with force and with cruelty have yeruled them.
34:5 And they were scattered, because there is no shepherd: and theybecame meat to all the beasts of the field, when they were scattered.
34:6 My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon every highhill: yea, my flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, andnone did search or seek after them.
34:7 Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the LORD; 
34:8 As Ilive, saith the Lord GOD, surely because my flock became a prey, andmy flock became meat to every beast of the field, because there was noshepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my flock, but theshepherds fed themselves, and fed not my flock; 
34:9 Therefore, O yeshepherds, hear the word of the LORD; 
34:10 Thus saith the Lord GOD;Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my flock attheir hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; neithershall the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will deliver myflock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for them.
34:11 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, will both searchmy sheep, and seek them out.
34:12 As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is amonghis sheep that are scattered; so will I seek out my sheep, and willdeliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in thecloudy and dark day.
34:13 And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them fromthe countries, and will bring them to their own land, and feed themupon the mountains of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabitedplaces of the country.
34:14 I will feed them in a good pasture, and upon the high mountainsof Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie in a good fold,and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.
34:15 I will feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie down, saiththe Lord GOD.
34:16 I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which wasdriven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and willstrengthen that which was sick: but I will destroy the fat and thestrong; I will feed them with judgment.
34:17 And as for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, Ijudge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats.
34:18 Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the goodpasture, but ye must tread down with your feet the residue of yourpastures? and to have drunk of the deep waters, but ye must foul theresidue with your feet?  
34:19 And as for my flock, they eat thatwhich ye have trodden with your feet; and they drink that which yehave fouled with your feet.
34:20 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD unto them; Behold, I, even I,will judge between the fat cattle and between the lean cattle.
34:21 Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder, and pushedall the diseased with your horns, till ye have scattered them abroad;
34:22 Therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be aprey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle.
34:23 And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feedthem, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be theirshepherd.
34:24 And I the LORD will be their God, and my servant David a princeamong them; I the LORD have spoken it.
34:25 And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will causethe evil beasts to cease out of the land: and they shall dwell safelyin the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.
34:26 And I will make them and the places round about my hill ablessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in his season;there shall be showers of blessing.
34:27 And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earthshall yield her increase, and they shall be safe in their land, andshall know that I am the LORD, when I have broken the bands of theiryoke, and delivered them out of the hand of those that servedthemselves of them.
34:28 And they shall no more be a prey to the heathen, neither shallthe beast of the land devour them; but they shall dwell safely, andnone shall make them afraid.
34:29 And I will raise up for them a plant of renown, and they shallbe no more consumed with hunger in the land, neither bear the shame ofthe heathen any more.
34:30 Thus shall they know that I the LORD their God am with them, andthat they, even the house of Israel, are my people, saith the LordGOD.
34:31 And ye my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men, and I am yourGod, saith the Lord GOD.
35:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
35:2 Son ofman, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it, 
35:3 And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O mount Seir, I amagainst thee, and I will stretch out mine hand against thee, and Iwill make thee most desolate.
35:4 I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thoushalt know that I am the LORD.
35:5 Because thou hast had a perpetual hatred, and hast shed the bloodof the children of Israel by the force of the sword in the time oftheir calamity, in the time that their iniquity had an end: 
35:6 Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will prepare thee untoblood, and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated blood,even blood shall pursue thee.
35:7 Thus will I make mount Seir most desolate, and cut off from ithim that passeth out and him that returneth.
35:8 And I will fill his mountains with his slain men: in thy hills,and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall they fall that areslain with the sword.
35:9 I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall notreturn: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
35:10 Because thou hast said, These two nations and these twocountries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas the LORD wasthere: 
35:11 Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will even doaccording to thine anger, and according to thine envy which thou hastused out of thy hatred against them; and I will make myself knownamong them, when I have judged thee.
35:12 And thou shalt know that I am the LORD, and that I have heardall thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountains ofIsrael, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to consume.
35:13 Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against me, and havemultiplied your words against me: I have heard them.
35:14 Thus saith the Lord GOD; When the whole earth rejoiceth, I willmake thee desolate.
35:15 As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the house of Israel,because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee: thou shalt bedesolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea, even all of it: and they shallknow that I am the LORD.
36:1 Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of Israel, andsay, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD: 
36:2 Thussaith the Lord GOD; Because the enemy hath said against you, Aha, eventhe ancient high places are ours in possession: 
36:3 Thereforeprophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they have made youdesolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that ye might be apossession unto the residue of the heathen, and ye are taken up in thelips of talkers, and are an infamy of the people: 
36:4 Therefore, yemountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith theLord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to thevalleys, to the desolate wastes, and to the cities that are forsaken,which became a prey and derision to the residue of the heathen thatare round about; 
36:5 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Surely in thefire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the heathen,and against all Idumea, which have appointed my land into theirpossession with the joy of all their heart, with despiteful minds, tocast it out for a prey.
36:6 Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel, and say untothe mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys,Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and inmy fury, because ye have borne the shame of the heathen: 
36:7 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I have lifted up mine hand, Surelythe heathen that are about you, they shall bear their shame.
36:8 But ye, O mountains of Israel, ye shall shoot forth yourbranches, and yield your fruit to my people of Israel; for they are athand to come.
36:9 For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn unto you, and ye shallbe tilled and sown: 
36:10 And I will multiply men upon you, all thehouse of Israel, even all of it: and the cities shall be inhabited,and the wastes shall be builded: 
36:11 And I will multiply upon youman and beast; and they shall increase and bring fruit: and I willsettle you after your old estates, and will do better unto you than atyour beginnings: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
36:12 Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel;and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt be their inheritance, andthou shalt no more henceforth bereave them of men.
36:13 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they say unto you, Thou landdevourest up men, and hast bereaved thy nations: 
36:14 Therefore thoushalt devour men no more, neither bereave thy nations any more, saiththe Lord GOD.
36:15 Neither will I cause men to hear in thee the shame of theheathen any more, neither shalt thou bear the reproach of the peopleany more, neither shalt thou cause thy nations to fall any more, saiththe Lord GOD.
36:16 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
36:17 Son ofman, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled itby their own way and by their doings: their way was before me as theuncleanness of a removed woman.
36:18 Wherefore I poured my fury upon them for the blood that they hadshed upon the land, and for their idols wherewith they had pollutedit: 
36:19 And I scattered them among the heathen, and they weredispersed through the countries: according to their way and accordingto their doings I judged them.
36:20 And when they entered unto the heathen, whither they went, theyprofaned my holy name, when they said to them, These are the people ofthe LORD, and are gone forth out of his land.
36:21 But I had pity for mine holy name, which the house of Israel hadprofaned among the heathen, whither they went.
36:22 Therefore say unto the house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD;I do not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for mine holyname's sake, which ye have profaned among the heathen, whither yewent.
36:23 And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among theheathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of them; and the heathenshall know that I am the LORD, saith the Lord GOD, when I shall besanctified in you before their eyes.
36:24 For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you outof all countries, and will bring you into your own land.
36:25 Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall beclean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will Icleanse you.
36:26 A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I putwithin you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh,and I will give you an heart of flesh.
36:27 And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in mystatutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them.
36:28 And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; andye shall be my people, and I will be your God.
36:29 I will also save you from all your uncleannesses: and I willcall for the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you.
36:30 And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase ofthe field, that ye shall receive no more reproach of famine among theheathen.
36:31 Then shall ye remember your own evil ways, and your doings thatwere not good, and shall lothe yourselves in your own sight for youriniquities and for your abominations.
36:32 Not for your sakes do I this, saith the Lord GOD, be it knownunto you: be ashamed and confounded for your own ways, O house ofIsrael.
36:33 Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day that I shall have cleansedyou from all your iniquities I will also cause you to dwell in thecities, and the wastes shall be builded.
36:34 And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolatein the sight of all that passed by.
36:35 And they shall say, This land that was desolate is become likethe garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities arebecome fenced, and are inhabited.
36:36 Then the heathen that are left round about you shall know that Ithe LORD build the ruined places, and plant that that was desolate: Ithe LORD have spoken it, and I will do it.
36:37 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will yet for this be enquired of bythe house of Israel, to do it for them; I will increase them with menlike a flock.
36:38 As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her solemnfeasts; so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men: andthey shall know that I am the LORD.
37:1 The hand of the LORD was upon me, and carried me out in thespirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley whichwas full of bones, 
37:2 And caused me to pass by them round about:and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, theywere very dry.
37:3 And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And Ianswered, O Lord GOD, thou knowest.
37:4 Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say untothem, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
37:5 Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones; Behold, I will causebreath to enter into you, and ye shall live: 
37:6 And I will laysinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you withskin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know thatI am the LORD.
37:7 So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, therewas a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, boneto his bone.
37:8 And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up uponthem, and the skin covered them above: but there was no breath inthem.
37:9 Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son ofman, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Come from the fourwinds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.
37:10 So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came intothem, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding greatarmy.
37:11 Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the wholehouse of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hopeis lost: we are cut off for our parts.
37:12 Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD;Behold, O my people, I will open your graves, and cause you to come upout of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel.
37:13 And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened yourgraves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves, 
37:14 Andshall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I shall place youin your own land: then shall ye know that I the LORD have spoken it,and performed it, saith the LORD.
37:15 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 
37:16 Moreover,thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah,and for the children of Israel his companions: then take anotherstick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim and for allthe house of Israel his companions: 
37:17 And join them one to anotherinto one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand.
37:18 And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee,saying, Wilt thou not shew us what thou meanest by these?  
37:19 Sayunto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the stick ofJoseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel hisfellows, and will put them with him, even with the stick of Judah, andmake them one stick, and they shall be one in mine hand.
37:20 And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thine handbefore their eyes.
37:21 And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will takethe children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone,and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their ownland: 
37:22 And I will make them one nation in the land upon themountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all: and theyshall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into twokingdoms any more at all.
37:23 Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols,nor with their detestable things, nor with any of theirtransgressions: but I will save them out of all their dwellingplaces,wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be mypeople, and I will be their God.
37:24 And David my servant shall be king over them; and they all shallhave one shepherd: they shall also walk in my judgments, and observemy statutes, and do them.
37:25 And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob myservant, wherein your fathers have dwelt; and they shall dwelltherein, even they, and their children, and their children's childrenfor ever: and my servant David shall be their prince for ever.
37:26 Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall bean everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiplythem, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.
37:27 My tabernacle also shall be with them: yea, I will be their God,and they shall be my people.
37:28 And the heathen shall know that I the LORD do sanctify Israel,when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.
38:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
38:2 Son of man,set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince ofMeshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him, 
38:3 And say, Thus saiththe Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince ofMeshech and Tubal: 
38:4 And I will turn thee back, and put hooks intothy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses andhorsemen, all of them clothed with all sorts of armour, even a greatcompany with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords: 
38:5 Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them; all of them with shield andhelmet: 
38:6 Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah of thenorth quarters, and all his bands: and many people with thee.
38:7 Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all thycompany that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.
38:8 After many days thou shalt be visited: in the latter years thoushalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword, and isgathered out of many people, against the mountains of Israel, whichhave been always waste: but it is brought forth out of the nations,and they shall dwell safely all of them.
38:9 Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm, thou shalt be like acloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy bands, and many people withthee.
38:10 Thus saith the Lord GOD; It shall also come to pass, that at thesame time shall things come into thy mind, and thou shalt think anevil thought: 
38:11 And thou shalt say, I will go up to the land ofunwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwellsafely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither barsnor gates, 
38:12 To take a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thinehand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited, and upon thepeople that are gathered out of the nations, which have gotten cattleand goods, that dwell in the midst of the land.
38:13 Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all theyoung lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to take aspoil? hast thou gathered thy company to take a prey? to carry awaysilver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?
38:14 Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto Gog, Thus saith theLord GOD; In that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, shaltthou not know it?  
38:15 And thou shalt come from thy place out of thenorth parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them riding uponhorses, a great company, and a mighty army: 
38:16 And thou shalt comeup against my people of Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shallbe in the latter days, and I will bring thee against my land, that theheathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, beforetheir eyes.
38:17 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Art thou he of whom I have spoken inold time by my servants the prophets of Israel, which prophesied inthose days many years that I would bring thee against them?  
38:18 Andit shall come to pass at the same time when Gog shall come against theland of Israel, saith the Lord GOD, that my fury shall come up in myface.
38:19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken,Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land ofIsrael; 
38:20 So that the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of theheaven, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things thatcreep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of theearth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be throwndown, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall tothe ground.
38:21 And I will call for a sword against him throughout all mymountains, saith the Lord GOD: every man's sword shall be against hisbrother.
38:22 And I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood; andI will rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon the many peoplethat are with him, an overflowing rain, and great hailstones, fire,and brimstone.
38:23 Thus will I magnify myself, and sanctify myself; and I will beknown in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am theLORD.
39:1 Therefore, thou son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thussaith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief princeof Meshech and Tubal: 
39:2 And I will turn thee back, and leave butthe sixth part of thee, and will cause thee to come up from the northparts, and will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel: 
39:3 And Iwill smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and will cause thine arrowsto fall out of thy right hand.
39:4 Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all thybands, and the people that is with thee: I will give thee unto theravenous birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to bedevoured.
39:5 Thou shalt fall upon the open field: for I have spoken it, saiththe Lord GOD.
39:6 And I will send a fire on Magog, and among them that dwellcarelessly in the isles: and they shall know that I am the LORD.
39:7 So will I make my holy name known in the midst of my peopleIsrael; and I will not let them pollute my holy name any more: and theheathen shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.
39:8 Behold, it is come, and it is done, saith the Lord GOD; this isthe day whereof I have spoken.
39:9 And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, andshall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the shields and thebucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears,and they shall burn them with fire seven years: 
39:10 So that theyshall take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of theforests; for they shall burn the weapons with fire: and they shallspoil those that spoiled them, and rob those that robbed them, saiththe Lord GOD.
39:11 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unto Goga place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers on theeast of the sea: and it shall stop the noses of the passengers: andthere shall they bury Gog and all his multitude: and they shall callit The valley of Hamongog.
39:12 And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of them,that they may cleanse the land.
39:13 Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall beto them a renown the day that I shall be glorified, saith the LordGOD.
39:14 And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passingthrough the land to bury with the passengers those that remain uponthe face of the earth, to cleanse it: after the end of seven monthsshall they search.
39:15 And the passengers that pass through the land, when any seeth aman's bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, till the buriers haveburied it in the valley of Hamongog.
39:16 And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah. Thus shall theycleanse the land.
39:17 And, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; Speak unto everyfeathered fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves,and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I dosacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains ofIsrael, that ye may eat flesh, and drink blood.
39:18 Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of theprinces of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks,all of them fatlings of Bashan.
39:19 And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye bedrunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
39:20 Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots,with mighty men, and with all men of war, saith the Lord GOD.
39:21 And I will set my glory among the heathen, and all the heathenshall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I havelaid upon them.
39:22 So the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their Godfrom that day and forward.
39:23 And the heathen shall know that the house of Israel went intocaptivity for their iniquity: because they trespassed against me,therefore hid I my face from them, and gave them into the hand oftheir enemies: so fell they all by the sword.
39:24 According to their uncleanness and according to theirtransgressions have I done unto them, and hid my face from them.
39:25 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Now will I bring again thecaptivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, andwill be jealous for my holy name; 
39:26 After that they have bornetheir shame, and all their trespasses whereby they have trespassedagainst me, when they dwelt safely in their land, and none made themafraid.
39:27 When I have brought them again from the people, and gatheredthem out of their enemies' lands, and am sanctified in them in thesight of many nations; 
39:28 Then shall they know that I am the LORDtheir God, which caused them to be led into captivity among theheathen: but I have gathered them unto their own land, and have leftnone of them any more there.
39:29 Neither will I hide my face any more from them: for I havepoured out my spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.
40:1 In the five and twentieth year of our captivity, in the beginningof the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth yearafter that the city was smitten, in the selfsame day the hand of theLORD was upon me, and brought me thither.
40:2 In the visions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, andset me upon a very high mountain, by which was as the frame of a cityon the south.
40:3 And he brought me thither, and, behold, there was a man, whoseappearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax inhis hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate.
40:4 And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, andhear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shall shewthee; for to the intent that I might shew them unto thee art thoubrought hither: declare all that thou seest to the house of Israel.
40:5 And behold a wall on the outside of the house round about, and inthe man's hand a measuring reed of six cubits long by the cubit and anhand breadth: so he measured the breadth of the building, one reed;and the height, one reed.
40:6 Then came he unto the gate which looketh toward the east, andwent up the stairs thereof, and measured the threshold of the gate,which was one reed broad; and the other threshold of the gate, whichwas one reed broad.
40:7 And every little chamber was one reed long, and one reed broad;and between the little chambers were five cubits; and the threshold ofthe gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed.
40:8 He measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed.
40:9 Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and theposts thereof, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was inward.
40:10 And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on thisside, and three on that side; they three were of one measure: and theposts had one measure on this side and on that side.
40:11 And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, tencubits; and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits.
40:12 The space also before the little chambers was one cubit on thisside, and the space was one cubit on that side: and the littlechambers were six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.
40:13 He measured then the gate from the roof of one little chamber tothe roof of another: the breadth was five and twenty cubits, dooragainst door.
40:14 He made also posts of threescore cubits, even unto the post ofthe court round about the gate.
40:15 And from the face of the gate of the entrance unto the face ofthe porch of the inner gate were fifty cubits.
40:16 And there were narrow windows to the little chambers, and totheir posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches:and windows were round about inward: and upon each post were palmtrees.
40:17 Then brought he me into the outward court, and, lo, there werechambers, and a pavement made for the court round about: thirtychambers were upon the pavement.
40:18 And the pavement by the side of the gates over against thelength of the gates was the lower pavement.
40:19 Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lowergate unto the forefront of the inner court without, an hundred cubitseastward and northward.
40:20 And the gate of the outward court that looked toward the north,he measured the length thereof, and the breadth thereof.
40:21 And the little chambers thereof were three on this side andthree on that side; and the posts thereof and the arches thereof wereafter the measure of the first gate: the length thereof was fiftycubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.
40:22 And their windows, and their arches, and their palm trees, wereafter the measure of the gate that looketh toward the east; and theywent up unto it by seven steps; and the arches thereof were beforethem.
40:23 And the gate of the inner court was over against the gate towardthe north, and toward the east; and he measured from gate to gate anhundred cubits.
40:24 After that he brought me toward the south, and behold a gatetoward the south: and he measured the posts thereof and the archesthereof according to these measures.
40:25 And there were windows in it and in the arches thereof roundabout, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and thebreadth five and twenty cubits.
40:26 And there were seven steps to go up to it, and the archesthereof were before them: and it had palm trees, one on this side, andanother on that side, upon the posts thereof.
40:27 And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south: and hemeasured from gate to gate toward the south an hundred cubits.
40:28 And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and hemeasured the south gate according to these measures; 
40:29 And thelittle chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the archesthereof, according to these measures: and there were windows in it andin the arches thereof round about: it was fifty cubits long, and fiveand twenty cubits broad.
40:30 And the arches round about were five and twenty cubits long, andfive cubits broad.
40:31 And the arches thereof were toward the utter court; and palmtrees were upon the posts thereof: and the going up to it had eightsteps.
40:32 And he brought me into the inner court toward the east: and hemeasured the gate according to these measures.
40:33 And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and thearches thereof, were according to these measures: and there werewindows therein and in the arches thereof round about: it was fiftycubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad.
40:34 And the arches thereof were toward the outward court; and palmtrees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: andthe going up to it had eight steps.
40:35 And he brought me to the north gate, and measured it accordingto these measures; 
40:36 The little chambers thereof, the poststhereof, and the arches thereof, and the windows to it round about:the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.
40:37 And the posts thereof were toward the utter court; and palmtrees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: andthe going up to it had eight steps.
40:38 And the chambers and the entries thereof were by the posts ofthe gates, where they washed the burnt offering.
40:39 And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, andtwo tables on that side, to slay thereon the burnt offering and thesin offering and the trespass offering.
40:40 And at the side without, as one goeth up to the entry of thenorth gate, were two tables; and on the other side, which was at theporch of the gate, were two tables.
40:41 Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, bythe side of the gate; eight tables, whereupon they slew theirsacrifices.
40:42 And the four tables were of hewn stone for the burnt offering,of a cubit and an half long, and a cubit and an half broad, and onecubit high: whereupon also they laid the instruments wherewith theyslew the burnt offering and the sacrifice.
40:43 And within were hooks, an hand broad, fastened round about: andupon the tables was the flesh of the offering.
40:44 And without the inner gate were the chambers of the singers inthe inner court, which was at the side of the north gate; and theirprospect was toward the south: one at the side of the east gate havingthe prospect toward the north.
40:45 And he said unto me, This chamber, whose prospect is toward thesouth, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house.
40:46 And the chamber whose prospect is toward the north is for thepriests, the keepers of the charge of the altar: these are the sons ofZadok among the sons of Levi, which come near to the LORD to ministerunto him.
40:47 So he measured the court, an hundred cubits long, and an hundredcubits broad, foursquare; and the altar that was before the house.
40:48 And he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured eachpost of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on thatside: and the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side, andthree cubits on that side.
40:49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadtheleven cubits, and he brought me by the steps whereby they went up toit: and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and anotheron that side.
41:1 Afterward he brought me to the temple, and measured the posts,six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the otherside, which was the breadth of the tabernacle.
41:2 And the breadth of the door was ten cubits; and the sides of thedoor were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the otherside: and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits: and thebreadth, twenty cubits.
41:3 Then went he inward, and measured the post of the door, twocubits; and the door, six cubits; and the breadth of the door, sevencubits.
41:4 So he measured the length thereof, twenty cubits; and thebreadth, twenty cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, Thisis the most holy place.
41:5 After he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and thebreadth of every side chamber, four cubits, round about the house onevery side.
41:6 And the side chambers were three, one over another, and thirty inorder; and they entered into the wall which was of the house for theside chambers round about, that they might have hold, but they had nothold in the wall of the house.
41:7 And there was an enlarging, and a winding about still upward tothe side chambers: for the winding about of the house went stillupward round about the house: therefore the breadth of the house wasstill upward, and so increased from the lowest chamber to the highestby the midst.
41:8 I saw also the height of the house round about: the foundationsof the side chambers were a full reed of six great cubits.
41:9 The thickness of the wall, which was for the side chamberwithout, was five cubits: and that which was left was the place of theside chambers that were within.
41:10 And between the chambers was the wideness of twenty cubits roundabout the house on every side.
41:11 And the doors of the side chambers were toward the place thatwas left, one door toward the north, and another door toward thesouth: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubitsround about.
41:12 Now the building that was before the separate place at the endtoward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the buildingwas five cubits thick round about, and the length thereof ninetycubits.
41:13 So he measured the house, an hundred cubits long; and theseparate place, and the building, with the walls thereof, an hundredcubits long; 
41:14 Also the breadth of the face of the house, and ofthe separate place toward the east, an hundred cubits.
41:15 And he measured the length of the building over against theseparate place which was behind it, and the galleries thereof on theone side and on the other side, an hundred cubits, with the innertemple, and the porches of the court; 
41:16 The door posts, and thenarrow windows, and the galleries round about on their three stories,over against the door, cieled with wood round about, and from theground up to the windows, and the windows were covered; 
41:17 To thatabove the door, even unto the inner house, and without, and by all thewall round about within and without, by measure.
41:18 And it was made with cherubims and palm trees, so that a palmtree was between a cherub and a cherub; and every cherub had twofaces; 
41:19 So that the face of a man was toward the palm tree on theone side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on theother side: it was made through all the house round about.
41:20 From the ground unto above the door were cherubims and palmtrees made, and on the wall of the temple.
41:21 The posts of the temple were squared, and the face of thesanctuary; the appearance of the one as the appearance of the other.
41:22 The altar of wood was three cubits high, and the length thereoftwo cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and thewalls thereof, were of wood: and he said unto me, This is the tablethat is before the LORD.
41:23 And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors.
41:24 And the doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves; twoleaves for the one door, and two leaves for the other door.
41:25 And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple,cherubims and palm trees, like as were made upon the walls; and therewere thick planks upon the face of the porch without.
41:26 And there were narrow windows and palm trees on the one side andon the other side, on the sides of the porch, and upon the sidechambers of the house, and thick planks.
42:1 Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way toward thenorth: and he brought me into the chamber that was over against theseparate place, and which was before the building toward the north.
42:2 Before the length of an hundred cubits was the north door, andthe breadth was fifty cubits.
42:3 Over against the twenty cubits which were for the inner court,and over against the pavement which was for the utter court, wasgallery against gallery in three stories.
42:4 And before the chambers was a walk to ten cubits breadth inward,a way of one cubit; and their doors toward the north.
42:5 Now the upper chambers were shorter: for the galleries werehigher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of thebuilding.
42:6 For they were in three stories, but had not pillars as thepillars of the courts: therefore the building was straitened more thanthe lowest and the middlemost from the ground.
42:7 And the wall that was without over against the chambers, towardthe utter court on the forepart of the chambers, the length thereofwas fifty cubits.
42:8 For the length of the chambers that were in the utter court wasfifty cubits: and, lo, before the temple were an hundred cubits.
42:9 And from under these chambers was the entry on the east side, asone goeth into them from the utter court.
42:10 The chambers were in the thickness of the wall of the courttoward the east, over against the separate place, and over against thebuilding.
42:11 And the way before them was like the appearance of the chamberswhich were toward the north, as long as they, and as broad as they:and all their goings out were both according to their fashions, andaccording to their doors.
42:12 And according to the doors of the chambers that were toward thesouth was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly beforethe wall toward the east, as one entereth into them.
42:13 Then said he unto me, The north chambers and the south chambers,which are before the separate place, they be holy chambers, where thepriests that approach unto the LORD shall eat the most holy things:there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat offering, andthe sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place is holy.
42:14 When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out ofthe holy place into the utter court, but there they shall lay theirgarments wherein they minister; for they are holy; and shall put onother garments, and shall approach to those things which are for thepeople.
42:15 Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, hebrought me forth toward the gate whose prospect is toward the east,and measured it round about.
42:16 He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundredreeds, with the measuring reed round about.
42:17 He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with themeasuring reed round about.
42:18 He measured the south side, five hundred reeds, with themeasuring reed.
42:19 He turned about to the west side, and measured five hundredreeds with the measuring reed.
42:20 He measured it by the four sides: it had a wall round about,five hundred reeds long, and five hundred broad, to make a separationbetween the sanctuary and the profane place.
43:1 Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that lookethtoward the east: 
43:2 And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel camefrom the way of the east: and his voice was like a noise of manywaters: and the earth shined with his glory.
43:3 And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw,even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy thecity: and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the riverChebar; and I fell upon my face.
43:4 And the glory of the LORD came into the house by the way of thegate whose prospect is toward the east.
43:5 So the spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court;and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house.
43:6 And I heard him speaking unto me out of the house; and the manstood by me.
43:7 And he said unto me, Son of man, the place of my throne, and theplace of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of thechildren of Israel for ever, and my holy name, shall the house ofIsrael no more defile, neither they, nor their kings, by theirwhoredom, nor by the carcases of their kings in their high places.
43:8 In their setting of their threshold by my thresholds, and theirpost by my posts, and the wall between me and them, they have evendefiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed:wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger.
43:9 Now let them put away their whoredom, and the carcases of theirkings, far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever.
43:10 Thou son of man, shew the house to the house of Israel, thatthey may be ashamed of their iniquities: and let them measure thepattern.
43:11 And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, shew them theform of the house, and the fashion thereof, and the goings outthereof, and the comings in thereof, and all the forms thereof, andall the ordinances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all thelaws thereof: and write it in their sight, that they may keep thewhole form thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them.
43:12 This is the law of the house; Upon the top of the mountain thewhole limit thereof round about shall be most holy. Behold, this isthe law of the house.
43:13 And these are the measures of the altar after the cubits: Thecubit is a cubit and an hand breadth; even the bottom shall be acubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the border thereof by the edgethereof round about shall be a span: and this shall be the higherplace of the altar.
43:14 And from the bottom upon the ground even to the lower settleshall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lessersettle even to the greater settle shall be four cubits, and thebreadth one cubit.
43:15 So the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and upwardshall be four horns.
43:16 And the altar shall be twelve cubits long, twelve broad, squarein the four squares thereof.
43:17 And the settle shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen broadin the four squares thereof; and the border about it shall be half acubit; and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit about; and his stairsshall look toward the east.
43:18 And he said unto me, Son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; Theseare the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall make it, tooffer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
43:19 And thou shalt give to the priests the Levites that be of theseed of Zadok, which approach unto me, to minister unto me, saith theLord GOD, a young bullock for a sin offering.
43:20 And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and put it on the fourhorns of it, and on the four corners of the settle, and upon theborder round about: thus shalt thou cleanse and purge it.
43:21 Thou shalt take the bullock also of the sin offering, and heshall burn it in the appointed place of the house, without thesanctuary.
43:22 And on the second day thou shalt offer a kid of the goatswithout blemish for a sin offering; and they shall cleanse the altar,as they did cleanse it with the bullock.
43:23 When thou hast made an end of cleansing it, thou shalt offer ayoung bullock without blemish, and a ram out of the flock withoutblemish.
43:24 And thou shalt offer them before the LORD, and the priests shallcast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt offeringunto the LORD.
43:25 Seven days shalt thou prepare every day a goat for a sinoffering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out ofthe flock, without blemish.
43:26 Seven days shall they purge the altar and purify it; and theyshall consecrate themselves.
43:27 And when these days are expired, it shall be, that upon theeighth day, and so forward, the priests shall make your burntofferings upon the altar, and your peace offerings; and I will acceptyou, saith the Lord GOD.
44:1 Then he brought me back the way of the gate of the outwardsanctuary which looketh toward the east; and it was shut.
44:2 Then said the LORD unto me; This gate shall be shut, it shall notbe opened, and no man shall enter in by it; because the LORD, the Godof Israel, hath entered in by it, therefore it shall be shut.
44:3 It is for the prince; the prince, he shall sit in it to eat breadbefore the LORD; he shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate,and shall go out by the way of the same.
44:4 Then brought he me the way of the north gate before the house:and I looked, and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house ofthe LORD: and I fell upon my face.
44:5 And the LORD said unto me, Son of man, mark well, and behold withthine eyes, and hear with thine ears all that I say unto theeconcerning all the ordinances of the house of the LORD, and all thelaws thereof; and mark well the entering in of the house, with everygoing forth of the sanctuary.
44:6 And thou shalt say to the rebellious, even to the house ofIsrael, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O ye house of Israel, let it sufficeyou of all your abominations, 
44:7 In that ye have brought into mysanctuary strangers, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised inflesh, to be in my sanctuary, to pollute it, even my house, when yeoffer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken mycovenant because of all your abominations.
44:8 And ye have not kept the charge of mine holy things: but ye haveset keepers of my charge in my sanctuary for yourselves.
44:9 Thus saith the Lord GOD; No stranger, uncircumcised in heart, noruncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my sanctuary, of any strangerthat is among the children of Israel.
44:10 And the Levites that are gone away far from me, when Israel wentastray, which went astray away from me after their idols; they shalleven bear their iniquity.
44:11 Yet they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having charge atthe gates of the house, and ministering to the house: they shall slaythe burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shallstand before them to minister unto them.
44:12 Because they ministered unto them before their idols, and causedthe house of Israel to fall into iniquity; therefore have I lifted upmine hand against them, saith the Lord GOD, and they shall bear theiriniquity.
44:13 And they shall not come near unto me, to do the office of apriest unto me, nor to come near to any of my holy things, in the mostholy place: but they shall bear their shame, and their abominationswhich they have committed.
44:14 But I will make them keepers of the charge of the house, for allthe service thereof, and for all that shall be done therein.
44:15 But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok, that kept thecharge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray fromme, they shall come near to me to minister unto me, and they shallstand before me to offer unto me the fat and the blood, saith the LordGOD: 
44:16 They shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall comenear to my table, to minister unto me, and they shall keep my charge.
44:17 And it shall come to pass, that when they enter in at the gatesof the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and nowool shall come upon them, whiles they minister in the gates of theinner court, and within.
44:18 They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads, and shall havelinen breeches upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves withany thing that causeth sweat.
44:19 And when they go forth into the utter court, even into the uttercourt to the people, they shall put off their garments wherein theyministered, and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put onother garments; and they shall not sanctify the people with theirgarments.
44:20 Neither shall they shave their heads, nor suffer their locks togrow long; they shall only poll their heads.
44:21 Neither shall any priest drink wine, when they enter into theinner court.
44:22 Neither shall they take for their wives a widow, nor her that isput away: but they shall take maidens of the seed of the house ofIsrael, or a widow that had a priest before.
44:23 And they shall teach my people the difference between the holyand profane, and cause them to discern between the unclean and theclean.
44:24 And in controversy they shall stand in judgment; and they shalljudge it according to my judgments: and they shall keep my laws and mystatutes in all mine assemblies; and they shall hallow my sabbaths.
44:25 And they shall come at no dead person to defile themselves: butfor father, or for mother, or for son, or for daughter, for brother,or for sister that hath had no husband, they may defile themselves.
44:26 And after he is cleansed, they shall reckon unto him seven days.
44:27 And in the day that he goeth into the sanctuary, unto the innercourt, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin offering,saith the Lord GOD.
44:28 And it shall be unto them for an inheritance: I am theirinheritance: and ye shall give them no possession in Israel: I amtheir possession.
44:29 They shall eat the meat offering, and the sin offering, and thetrespass offering: and every dedicated thing in Israel shall betheirs.
44:30 And the first of all the firstfruits of all things, and everyoblation of all, of every sort of your oblations, shall be thepriest's: ye shall also give unto the priest the first of your dough,that he may cause the blessing to rest in thine house.
44:31 The priests shall not eat of any thing that is dead of itself,or torn, whether it be fowl or beast.
45:1 Moreover, when ye shall divide by lot the land for inheritance,ye shall offer an oblation unto the LORD, an holy portion of the land:the length shall be the length of five and twenty thousand reeds, andthe breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all theborders thereof round about.
45:2 Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred in length,with five hundred in breadth, square round about; and fifty cubitsround about for the suburbs thereof.
45:3 And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of five andtwenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall bethe sanctuary and the most holy place.
45:4 The holy portion of the land shall be for the priests theministers of the sanctuary, which shall come near to minister unto theLORD: and it shall be a place for their houses, and an holy place forthe sanctuary.
45:5 And the five and twenty thousand of length, and the ten thousandof breadth shall also the Levites, the ministers of the house, havefor themselves, for a possession for twenty chambers.
45:6 And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousandbroad, and five and twenty thousand long, over against the oblation ofthe holy portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
45:7 And a portion shall be for the prince on the one side and on theother side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possessionof the city, before the oblation of the holy portion, and before thepossession of the city, from the west side westward, and from the eastside eastward: and the length shall be over against one of theportions, from the west border unto the east border.
45:8 In the land shall be his possession in Israel: and my princesshall no more oppress my people; and the rest of the land shall theygive to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
45:9 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel:remove violence and spoil, and execute judgment and justice, take awayyour exactions from my people, saith the Lord GOD.
45:10 Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
45:11 The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bathmay contain the tenth part of an homer, and the ephah the tenth partof an homer: the measure thereof shall be after the homer.
45:12 And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, five andtwenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.
45:13 This is the oblation that ye shall offer; the sixth part of anephah of an homer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of anephah of an homer of barley: 
45:14 Concerning the ordinance of oil,the bath of oil, ye shall offer the tenth part of a bath out of thecor, which is an homer of ten baths; for ten baths are an homer: 
45:15 And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the fatpastures of Israel; for a meat offering, and for a burnt offering, andfor peace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, saith the LordGOD.
45:16 All the people of the land shall give this oblation for theprince in Israel.
45:17 And it shall be the prince's part to give burnt offerings, andmeat offerings, and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the newmoons, and in the sabbaths, in all solemnities of the house of Israel:he shall prepare the sin offering, and the meat offering, and theburnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make reconciliation forthe house of Israel.
45:18 Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the first month, in the first day ofthe month, thou shalt take a young bullock without blemish, andcleanse the sanctuary: 
45:19 And the priest shall take of the blood ofthe sin offering, and put it upon the posts of the house, and upon thefour corners of the settle of the altar, and upon the posts of thegate of the inner court.
45:20 And so thou shalt do the seventh day of the month for every onethat erreth, and for him that is simple: so shall ye reconcile thehouse.
45:21 In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shallhave the passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall beeaten.
45:22 And upon that day shall the prince prepare for himself and forall the people of the land a bullock for a sin offering.
45:23 And seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering tothe LORD, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily theseven days; and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering.
45:24 And he shall prepare a meat offering of an ephah for a bullock,and an ephah for a ram, and an hin of oil for an ephah.
45:25 In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, shallhe do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to the sinoffering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meatoffering, and according to the oil.
46:1 Thus saith the Lord GOD; The gate of the inner court that lookethtoward the east shall be shut the six working days; but on the sabbathit shall be opened, and in the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
46:2 And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of that gatewithout, and shall stand by the post of the gate, and the priestsshall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shallworship at the threshold of the gate: then he shall go forth; but thegate shall not be shut until the evening.
46:3 Likewise the people of the land shall worship at the door of thisgate before the LORD in the sabbaths and in the new moons.
46:4 And the burnt offering that the prince shall offer unto the LORDin the sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish, and a ramwithout blemish.
46:5 And the meat offering shall be an ephah for a ram, and the meatoffering for the lambs as he shall be able to give, and an hin of oilto an ephah.
46:6 And in the day of the new moon it shall be a young bullockwithout blemish, and six lambs, and a ram: they shall be withoutblemish.
46:7 And he shall prepare a meat offering, an ephah for a bullock, andan ephah for a ram, and for the lambs according as his hand shallattain unto, and an hin of oil to an ephah.
46:8 And when the prince shall enter, he shall go in by the way of theporch of that gate, and he shall go forth by the way thereof.
46:9 But when the people of the land shall come before the LORD in thesolemn feasts, he that entereth in by the way of the north gate toworship shall go out by the way of the south gate; and he thatentereth by the way of the south gate shall go forth by the way of thenorth gate: he shall not return by the way of the gate whereby he camein, but shall go forth over against it.
46:10 And the prince in the midst of them, when they go in, shall goin; and when they go forth, shall go forth.
46:11 And in the feasts and in the solemnities the meat offering shallbe an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, and to the lambs ashe is able to give, and an hin of oil to an ephah.
46:12 Now when the prince shall prepare a voluntary burnt offering orpeace offerings voluntarily unto the LORD, one shall then open him thegate that looketh toward the east, and he shall prepare his burntoffering and his peace offerings, as he did on the sabbath day: thenhe shall go forth; and after his going forth one shall shut the gate.
46:13 Thou shalt daily prepare a burnt offering unto the LORD of alamb of the first year without blemish: thou shalt prepare it everymorning.
46:14 And thou shalt prepare a meat offering for it every morning, thesixth part of an ephah, and the third part of an hin of oil, to temperwith the fine flour; a meat offering continually by a perpetualordinance unto the LORD.
46:15 Thus shall they prepare the lamb, and the meat offering, and theoil, every morning for a continual burnt offering.
46:16 Thus saith the Lord GOD; If the prince give a gift unto any ofhis sons, the inheritance thereof shall be his sons'; it shall betheir possession by inheritance.
46:17 But if he give a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants,then it shall be his to the year of liberty; after it shall return tothe prince: but his inheritance shall be his sons' for them.
46:18 Moreover the prince shall not take of the people's inheritanceby oppression, to thrust them out of their possession; but he shallgive his sons inheritance out of his own possession: that my people benot scattered every man from his possession.
46:19 After he brought me through the entry, which was at the side ofthe gate, into the holy chambers of the priests, which looked towardthe north: and, behold, there was a place on the two sides westward.
46:20 Then said he unto me, This is the place where the priests shallboil the trespass offering and the sin offering, where they shall bakethe meat offering; that they bear them not out into the utter court,to sanctify the people.
46:21 Then he brought me forth into the utter court, and caused me topass by the four corners of the court; and, behold, in every corner ofthe court there was a court.
46:22 In the four corners of the court there were courts joined offorty cubits long and thirty broad: these four corners were of onemeasure.
46:23 And there was a row of building round about in them, round aboutthem four, and it was made with boiling places under the rows roundabout.
46:24 Then said he unto me, These are the places of them that boil,where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifice of thepeople.
47:1 Afterward he brought me again unto the door of the house; and,behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the houseeastward: for the forefront of the house stood toward the east, andthe waters came down from under from the right side of the house, atthe south side of the altar.
47:2 Then brought he me out of the way of the gate northward, and ledme about the way without unto the utter gate by the way that looketheastward; and, behold, there ran out waters on the right side.
47:3 And when the man that had the line in his hand went fortheastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through thewaters; the waters were to the ankles.
47:4 Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the waters;the waters were to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, andbrought me through; the waters were to the loins.
47:5 Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that I couldnot pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a riverthat could not be passed over.
47:6 And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? Then hebrought me, and caused me to return to the brink of the river.
47:7 Now when I had returned, behold, at the bank of the river werevery many trees on the one side and on the other.
47:8 Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the eastcountry, and go down into the desert, and go into the sea: which beingbrought forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed.
47:9 And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, whichmoveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live: and thereshall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shallcome thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall livewhither the river cometh.
47:10 And it shall come to pass, that the fishers shall stand upon itfrom Engedi even unto Eneglaim; they shall be a place to spread forthnets; their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of thegreat sea, exceeding many.
47:11 But the miry places thereof and the marishes thereof shall notbe healed; they shall be given to salt.
47:12 And by the river upon the bank thereof, on this side and on thatside, shall grow all trees for meat, whose leaf shall not fade,neither shall the fruit thereof be consumed: it shall bring forth newfruit according to his months, because their waters they issued out ofthe sanctuary: and the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leafthereof for medicine.
47:13 Thus saith the Lord GOD; This shall be the border, whereby yeshall inherit the land according to the twelve tribes of Israel:Joseph shall have two portions.
47:14 And ye shall inherit it, one as well as another: concerning thewhich I lifted up mine hand to give it unto your fathers: and thisland shall fall unto you for inheritance.
47:15 And this shall be the border of the land toward the north side,from the great sea, the way of Hethlon, as men go to Zedad; 
47:16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus andthe border of Hamath; Hazarhatticon, which is by the coast of Hauran.
47:17 And the border from the sea shall be Hazarenan, the border ofDamascus, and the north northward, and the border of Hamath. And thisis the north side.
47:18 And the east side ye shall measure from Hauran, and fromDamascus, and from Gilead, and from the land of Israel by Jordan, fromthe border unto the east sea. And this is the east side.
47:19 And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters ofstrife in Kadesh, the river to the great sea. And this is the southside southward.
47:20 The west side also shall be the great sea from the border, tilla man come over against Hamath. This is the west side.
47:21 So shall ye divide this land unto you according to the tribes ofIsrael.
47:22 And it shall come to pass, that ye shall divide it by lot for aninheritance unto you, and to the strangers that sojourn among you,which shall beget children among you: and they shall be unto you asborn in the country among the children of Israel; they shall haveinheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.
47:23 And it shall come to pass, that in what tribe the strangersojourneth, there shall ye give him his inheritance, saith the LordGOD.
48:1 Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end to thecoast of the way of Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazarenan, theborder of Damascus northward, to the coast of Hamath; for these arehis sides east and west; a portion for Dan.
48:2 And by the border of Dan, from the east side unto the west side,a portion for Asher.
48:3 And by the border of Asher, from the east side even unto the westside, a portion for Naphtali.
48:4 And by the border of Naphtali, from the east side unto the westside, a portion for Manasseh.
48:5 And by the border of Manasseh, from the east side unto the westside, a portion for Ephraim.
48:6 And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even unto thewest side, a portion for Reuben.
48:7 And by the border of Reuben, from the east side unto the westside, a portion for Judah.
48:8 And by the border of Judah, from the east side unto the westside, shall be the offering which ye shall offer of five and twentythousand reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the other parts,from the east side unto the west side: and the sanctuary shall be inthe midst of it.
48:9 The oblation that ye shall offer unto the LORD shall be of fiveand twenty thousand in length, and of ten thousand in breadth.
48:10 And for them, even for the priests, shall be this holy oblation;toward the north five and twenty thousand in length, and toward thewest ten thousand in breadth, and toward the east ten thousand inbreadth, and toward the south five and twenty thousand in length: andthe sanctuary of the LORD shall be in the midst thereof.
48:11 It shall be for the priests that are sanctified of the sons ofZadok; which have kept my charge, which went not astray when thechildren of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray.
48:12 And this oblation of the land that is offered shall be unto thema thing most holy by the border of the Levites.
48:13 And over against the border of the priests the Levites shallhave five and twenty thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth:all the length shall be five and twenty thousand, and the breadth tenthousand.
48:14 And they shall not sell of it, neither exchange, nor alienatethe firstfruits of the land: for it is holy unto the LORD.
48:15 And the five thousand, that are left in the breadth over againstthe five and twenty thousand, shall be a profane place for the city,for dwelling, and for suburbs: and the city shall be in the midstthereof.
48:16 And these shall be the measures thereof; the north side fourthousand and five hundred, and the south side four thousand and fivehundred, and on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and thewest side four thousand and five hundred.
48:17 And the suburbs of the city shall be toward the north twohundred and fifty, and toward the south two hundred and fifty, andtoward the east two hundred and fifty, and toward the west two hundredand fifty.
48:18 And the residue in length over against the oblation of the holyportion shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward: andit shall be over against the oblation of the holy portion; and theincrease thereof shall be for food unto them that serve the city.
48:19 And they that serve the city shall serve it out of all thetribes of Israel.
48:20 All the oblation shall be five and twenty thousand by five andtwenty thousand: ye shall offer the holy oblation foursquare, with thepossession of the city.
48:21 And the residue shall be for the prince, on the one side and onthe other of the holy oblation, and of the possession of the city,over against the five and twenty thousand of the oblation toward theeast border, and westward over against the five and twenty thousandtoward the west border, over against the portions for the prince: andit shall be the holy oblation; and the sanctuary of the house shall bein the midst thereof.
48:22 Moreover from the possession of the Levites, and from thepossession of the city, being in the midst of that which is theprince's, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin,shall be for the prince.
48:23 As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side unto the westside, Benjamin shall have a portion.
48:24 And by the border of Benjamin, from the east side unto the westside, Simeon shall have a portion.
48:25 And by the border of Simeon, from the east side unto the westside, Issachar a portion.
48:26 And by the border of Issachar, from the east side unto the westside, Zebulun a portion.
48:27 And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side unto the westside, Gad a portion.
48:28 And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, theborder shall be even from Tamar unto the waters of strife in Kadesh,and to the river toward the great sea.
48:29 This is the land which ye shall divide by lot unto the tribes ofIsrael for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the LordGOD.
48:30 And these are the goings out of the city on the north side, fourthousand and five hundred measures.
48:31 And the gates of the city shall be after the names of the tribesof Israel: three gates northward; one gate of Reuben, one gate ofJudah, one gate of Levi.
48:32 And at the east side four thousand and five hundred: and threegates; and one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan.
48:33 And at the south side four thousand and five hundred measures:and three gates; one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate ofZebulun.
48:34 At the west side four thousand and five hundred, with theirthree gates; one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali.
48:35 It was round about eighteen thousand measures: and the name ofthe city from that day shall be, The LORD is there.