1:1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word ofthe LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirredup the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamationthroughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, 
1:2 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The LORD God of heaven hath given meall the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him anhouse at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
1:3 Who is there among you of all his people? his God be with him, andlet him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house ofthe LORD God of Israel, (he is the God,) which is in Jerusalem.
1:4 And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let themen of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods,and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of Godthat is in Jerusalem.
1:5 Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, andthe priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God hadraised, to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem.
1:6 And all they that were about them strengthened their hands withvessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and withprecious things, beside all that was willingly offered.
1:7 Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of theLORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and hadput them in the house of his gods; 
1:8 Even those did Cyrus king ofPersia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, andnumbered them unto Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah.
1:9 And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, athousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives, 
1:10 Thirtybasons of gold, silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten,and other vessels a thousand.
1:11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and fourhundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivitythat were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem.
2:1 Now these are the children of the province that went up out of thecaptivity, of those which had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzarthe king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and came again untoJerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city; 
2:2 Which came withZerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan,Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people ofIsrael: 
2:3 The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventyand two.
2:4 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.
2:5 The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy and five.
2:6 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab,two thousand eight hundred and twelve.
2:7 The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.
2:8 The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five.
2:9 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.
2:10 The children of Bani, six hundred forty and two.
2:11 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three.
2:12 The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two.
2:13 The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.
2:14 The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.
2:15 The children of Adin, four hundred fifty and four.
2:16 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.
2:17 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three.
2:18 The children of Jorah, an hundred and twelve.
2:19 The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three.
2:20 The children of Gibbar, ninety and five.
2:21 The children of Bethlehem, an hundred twenty and three.
2:22 The men of Netophah, fifty and six.
2:23 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.
2:24 The children of Azmaveth, forty and two.
2:25 The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, sevenhundred and forty and three.
2:26 The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.
2:27 The men of Michmas, an hundred twenty and two.
2:28 The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.
2:29 The children of Nebo, fifty and two.
2:30 The children of Magbish, an hundred fifty and six.
2:31 The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty andfour.
2:32 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
2:33 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty andfive.
2:34 The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.
2:35 The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred andthirty.
2:36 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua,nine hundred seventy and three.
2:37 The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.
2:38 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.
2:39 The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
2:40 The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the childrenof Hodaviah, seventy and four.
2:41 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred twenty and eight.
2:42 The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, thechildren of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, thechildren of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all an hundred thirtyand nine.
2:43 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, thechildren of Tabbaoth, 
2:44 The children of Keros, the children ofSiaha, the children of Padon, 
2:45 The children of Lebanah, thechildren of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 
2:46 The children ofHagab, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan, 
2:47 Thechildren of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
2:48 The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children ofGazzam, 
2:49 The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, thechildren of Besai, 
2:50 The children of Asnah, the children ofMehunim, the children of Nephusim, 
2:51 The children of Bakbuk, thechildren of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
2:52 The children ofBazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 
2:53 Thechildren of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah,
2:54 The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.
2:55 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, thechildren of Sophereth, the children of Peruda, 
2:56 The children ofJaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 
2:57 Thechildren of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children ofPochereth of Zebaim, the children of Ami.
2:58 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, werethree hundred ninety and two.
2:59 And these were they which went up from Telmelah, Telharsa,Cherub, Addan, and Immer: but they could not shew their father'shouse, and their seed, whether they were of Israel: 
2:60 The childrenof Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, sixhundred fifty and two.
2:61 And of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, thechildren of Koz, the children of Barzillai; which took a wife of thedaughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name:
2:62 These sought their register among those that were reckoned bygenealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they, as polluted,put from the priesthood.
2:63 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of themost holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and withThummim.
2:64 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand threehundred and threescore, 
2:65 Beside their servants and their maids, ofwhom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: andthere were among them two hundred singing men and singing women.
2:66 Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, twohundred forty and five; 
2:67 Their camels, four hundred thirty andfive; their asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
2:68 And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the houseof the LORD which is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of Godto set it up in his place: 
2:69 They gave after their ability unto thetreasure of the work threescore and one thousand drams of gold, andfive thousand pound of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.
2:70 So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and thesingers, and the porters, and the Nethinims, dwelt in their cities,and all Israel in their cities.
3:1 And when the seventh month was come, and the children of Israelwere in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one manto Jerusalem.
3:2 Then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren thepriests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brethren, andbuilded the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offeringsthereon, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.
3:3 And they set the altar upon his bases; for fear was upon thembecause of the people of those countries: and they offered burntofferings thereon unto the LORD, even burnt offerings morning andevening.
3:4 They kept also the feast of tabernacles, as it is written, andoffered the daily burnt offerings by number, according to the custom,as the duty of every day required; 
3:5 And afterward offered thecontinual burnt offering, both of the new moons, and of all the setfeasts of the LORD that were consecrated, and of every one thatwillingly offered a freewill offering unto the LORD.
3:6 From the first day of the seventh month began they to offer burntofferings unto the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of the LORDwas not yet laid.
3:7 They gave money also unto the masons, and to the carpenters; andmeat, and drink, and oil, unto them of Zidon, and to them of Tyre, tobring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to thegrant that they had of Cyrus king of Persia.
3:8 Now in the second year of their coming unto the house of God atJerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel,and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the remnant of their brethren thepriests and the Levites, and all they that were come out of thecaptivity unto Jerusalem; and appointed the Levites, from twenty yearsold and upward, to set forward the work of the house of the LORD.
3:9 Then stood Jeshua with his sons and his brethren, Kadmiel and hissons, the sons of Judah, together, to set forward the workmen in thehouse of God: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brethrenthe Levites.
3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of theLORD, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets, and theLevites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise the LORD, after theordinance of David king of Israel.
3:11 And they sang together by course in praising and giving thanksunto the LORD; because he is good, for his mercy endureth for evertoward Israel.And all the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised theLORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.
3:12 But many of the priests and Levites and chief of the fathers, whowere ancient men, that had seen the first house, when the foundationof this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice; andmany shouted aloud for joy: 
3:13 So that the people could not discernthe noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of thepeople: for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise washeard afar off.
4:1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that thechildren of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God ofIsrael; 
4:2 Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of thefathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek yourGod, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days ofEsarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither.
4:3 But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of thefathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us tobuild an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build untothe LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hathcommanded us.
4:4 Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people ofJudah, and troubled them in building, 
4:5 And hired counsellorsagainst them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus kingof Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.
4:6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign,wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah andJerusalem.
4:7 And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel,and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; andthe writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, andinterpreted in the Syrian tongue.
4:8 Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letteragainst Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort: 
4:9 Then wroteRehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of theircompanions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, theApharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, theDehavites, and the Elamites, 
4:10 And the rest of the nations whom thegreat and noble Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities ofSamaria, and the rest that are on this side the river, and at such atime.
4:11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent unto him, even untoArtaxerxes the king; Thy servants the men on this side the river, andat such a time.
4:12 Be it known unto the king, that the Jews which came up from theeto us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the badcity, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations.
4:13 Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be builded, andthe walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, andcustom, and so thou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.
4:14 Now because we have maintenance from the king's palace, and itwas not meet for us to see the king's dishonour, therefore have wesent and certified the king; 
4:15 That search may be made in the bookof the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in the book of therecords, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtfulunto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within thesame of old time: for which cause was this city destroyed.
4:16 We certify the king that, if this city be builded again, and thewalls thereof set up, by this means thou shalt have no portion on thisside the river.
4:17 Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum the chancellor, and toShimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions that dwell inSamaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peace, and at such atime.
4:18 The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainly read beforeme.
4:19 And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is found thatthis city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and thatrebellion and sedition have been made therein.
4:20 There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, which haveruled over all countries beyond the river; and toll, tribute, andcustom, was paid unto them.
4:21 Give ye now commandment to cause these men to cease, and thatthis city be not builded, until another commandment shall be givenfrom me.
4:22 Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: why should damage growto the hurt of the kings?  
4:23 Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes'letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and theircompanions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and madethem to cease by force and power.
4:24 Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem.So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king ofPersia.
5:1 Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son ofIddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in thename of the God of Israel, even unto them.
5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the sonof Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem:and with them were the prophets of God helping them.
5:3 At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side theriver, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus untothem, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up thiswall?  
5:4 Then said we unto them after this manner, What are thenames of the men that make this building?  
5:5 But the eye of theirGod was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them tocease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answerby letter concerning this matter.
5:6 The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side theriver, and Shetharboznai and his companions the Apharsachites, whichwere on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king: 
5:7 They senta letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, allpeace.
5:8 Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province ofJudea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with greatstones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on,and prospereth in their hands.
5:9 Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commandedyou to build this house, and to make up these walls?  
5:10 We askedtheir names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names ofthe men that were the chief of them.
5:11 And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants ofthe God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was buildedthese many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.
5:12 But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven untowrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king ofBabylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried thepeople away into Babylon.
5:13 But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same kingCyrus made a decree to build this house of God.
5:14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God,which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, andbrought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king takeout of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whosename was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor; 
5:15 And said untohim, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is inJerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place.
5:16 Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of thehouse of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until nowhath it been in building, and yet it is not finished.
5:17 Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be searchmade in the king's treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whetherit be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this houseof God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to usconcerning this matter.
6:1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in thehouse of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.
6:2 And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in theprovince of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written:
6:3 In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made adecree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house bebuilded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let thefoundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescorecubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits; 
6:4 With three rowsof great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses begiven out of the king's house: 
6:5 And also let the golden and silvervessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out ofthe temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, berestored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem,every one to his place, and place them in the house of God.
6:6 Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai,and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, beye far from thence: 
6:7 Let the work of this house of God alone; letthe governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this houseof God in his place.
6:8 Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of theseJews for the building of this house of God: that of the king's goods,even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given untothese men, that they be not hindered.
6:9 And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams,and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt,wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which areat Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail: 
6:10 Thatthey may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, andpray for the life of the king, and of his sons.
6:11 Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word,let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him behanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this.
6:12 And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy allkings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroythis house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree;let it be done with speed.
6:13 Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, andtheir companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, sothey did speedily.
6:14 And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered throughthe prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo.And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of theGod of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius,and Artaxerxes king of Persia.
6:15 And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar,which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.
6:16 And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and therest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of thishouse of God with joy.
6:17 And offered at the dedication of this house of God an hundredbullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offeringfor all Israel, twelve he goats, according to the number of the tribesof Israel.
6:18 And they set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites intheir courses, for the service of God, which is at Jerusalem; as it iswritten in the book of Moses.
6:19 And the children of the captivity kept the passover upon thefourteenth day of the first month.
6:20 For the priests and the Levites were purified together, all ofthem were pure, and killed the passover for all the children of thecaptivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves.
6:21 And the children of Israel, which were come again out ofcaptivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from thefilthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the LORD God of Israel,did eat, 
6:22 And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days withjoy: for the LORD had made them joyful, and turned the heart of theking of Assyria unto them, to strengthen their hands in the work ofthe house of God, the God of Israel.
7:1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia,Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 
7:2 The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub, 
7:3 The sonof Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 
7:4 The son ofZerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki, 
7:5 The son of Abishua,the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chiefpriest: 
7:6 This Ezra went up from Babylon; and he was a ready scribein the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given: and theking granted him all his request, according to the hand of the LORDhis God upon him.
7:7 And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of thepriests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and theNethinims, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.
7:8 And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in theseventh year of the king.
7:9 For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up fromBabylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem,according to the good hand of his God upon him.
7:10 For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, andto do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.
7:11 Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gaveunto Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe of the words of thecommandments of the LORD, and of his statutes to Israel.
7:12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of thelaw of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time.
7:13 I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and ofhis priests and Levites, in my realm, which are minded of their ownfreewill to go up to Jerusalem, go with thee.
7:14 Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king, and of his sevencounsellors, to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according tothe law of thy God which is in thine hand; 
7:15 And to carry thesilver and gold, which the king and his counsellors have freelyoffered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 
7:16 And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the provinceof Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people, and of thepriests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is inJerusalem: 
7:17 That thou mayest buy speedily with this moneybullocks, rams, lambs, with their meat offerings and their drinkofferings, and offer them upon the altar of the house of your Godwhich is in Jerusalem.
7:18 And whatsoever shall seem good to thee, and to thy brethren, todo with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do after the will ofyour God.
7:19 The vessels also that are given thee for the service of the houseof thy God, those deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem.
7:20 And whatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God,which thou shalt have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king'streasure house.
7:21 And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all thetreasurers which are beyond the river, that whatsoever Ezra thepriest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require ofyou, it be done speedily, 
7:22 Unto an hundred talents of silver, andto an hundred measures of wheat, and to an hundred baths of wine, andto an hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
7:23 Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it bediligently done for the house of the God of heaven: for why shouldthere be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?  
7:24 Alsowe certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, singers,porters, Nethinims, or ministers of this house of God, it shall not belawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom, upon them.
7:25 And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God, that is in thinehand, set magistrates and judges, which may judge all the people thatare beyond the river, all such as know the laws of thy God; and teachye them that know them not.
7:26 And whosoever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of theking, let judgment be executed speedily upon him, whether it be untodeath, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or toimprisonment.
7:27 Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, which hath put such athing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of the LORDwhich is in Jerusalem: 
7:28 And hath extended mercy unto me before theking, and his counsellors, and before all the king's mighty princes.And I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, andI gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.
8:1 These are now the chief of their fathers, and this is thegenealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon, in the reign ofArtaxerxes the king.
8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas; Gershom: of the sons of Ithamar; Daniel:of the sons of David; Hattush.
8:3 Of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh; Zechariah: andwith him were reckoned by genealogy of the males an hundred and fifty.
8:4 Of the sons of Pahathmoab; Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and withhim two hundred males.
8:5 Of the sons of Shechaniah; the son of Jahaziel, and with him threehundred males.
8:6 Of the sons also of Adin; Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with himfifty males.
8:7 And of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and withhim seventy males.
8:8 And of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah the son of Michael, andwith him fourscore males.
8:9 Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him twohundred and eighteen males.
8:10 And of the sons of Shelomith; the son of Josiphiah, and with himan hundred and threescore males.
8:11 And of the sons of Bebai; Zechariah the son of Bebai, and withhim twenty and eight males.
8:12 And of the sons of Azgad; Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and withhim an hundred and ten males.
8:13 And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are these,Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them threescore males.
8:14 Of the sons also of Bigvai; Uthai, and Zabbud, and with themseventy males.
8:15 And I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava;and there abode we in tents three days: and I viewed the people, andthe priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.
8:16 Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and forElnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and forZechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and forElnathan, men of understanding.
8:17 And I sent them with commandment unto Iddo the chief at the placeCasiphia, and I told them what they should say unto Iddo, and to hisbrethren the Nethinims, at the place Casiphia, that they should bringunto us ministers for the house of our God.
8:18 And by the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man ofunderstanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son ofIsrael; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen; 
8:19 And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, hisbrethren and their sons, twenty; 
8:20 Also of the Nethinims, whomDavid and the princes had appointed for the service of the Levites,two hundred and twenty Nethinims: all of them were expressed by name.
8:21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that wemight afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way forus, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.
8:22 For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers andhorsemen to help us against the enemy in the way: because we hadspoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them forgood that seek him; but his power and his wrath is against all themthat forsake him.
8:23 So we fasted and besought our God for this: and he was intreatedof us.
8:24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests, Sherebiah,Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them, 
8:25 And weighed untothem the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering ofthe house of our God, which the king, and his counsellors, and hislords, and all Israel there present, had offered: 
8:26 I even weighedunto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silvervessels an hundred talents, and of gold an hundred talents; 
8:27 Alsotwenty basons of gold, of a thousand drams; and two vessels of finecopper, precious as gold.
8:28 And I said unto them, Ye are holy unto the LORD; the vessels areholy also; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering untothe LORD God of your fathers.
8:29 Watch ye, and keep them, until ye weigh them before the chief ofthe priests and the Levites, and chief of the fathers of Israel, atJerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LORD.
8:30 So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver, andthe gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the houseof our God.
8:31 Then we departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day ofthe first month, to go unto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God wasupon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy, and of suchas lay in wait by the way.
8:32 And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days.
8:33 Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vesselsweighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son ofUriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; andwith them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son ofBinnui, Levites; 
8:34 By number and by weight of every one: and allthe weight was written at that time.
8:35 Also the children of those that had been carried away, which werecome out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God ofIsrael, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventyand seven lambs, twelve he goats for a sin offering: all this was aburnt offering unto the LORD.
8:36 And they delivered the king's commissions unto the king'slieutenants, and to the governors on this side the river: and theyfurthered the people, and the house of God.
9:1 Now when these things were done, the princes came to me, saying,The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, have notseparated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according totheir abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, thePerizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians,and the Amorites.
9:2 For they have taken of their daughters for themselves, and fortheir sons: so that the holy seed have mingled themselves with thepeople of those lands: yea, the hand of the princes and rulers hathbeen chief in this trespass.
9:3 And when I heard this thing, I rent my garment and my mantle, andplucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat downastonied.
9:4 Then were assembled unto me every one that trembled at the wordsof the God of Israel, because of the transgression of those that hadbeen carried away; and I sat astonied until the evening sacrifice.
9:5 And at the evening sacrifice I arose up from my heaviness; andhaving rent my garment and my mantle, I fell upon my knees, and spreadout my hands unto the LORD my God, 
9:6 And said, O my God, I amashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for ouriniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown upunto the heavens.
9:7 Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespassunto this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and ourpriests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, tothe sword, to captivity, and to a spoil, and to confusion of face, asit is this day.
9:8 And now for a little space grace hath been shewed from the LORDour God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in hisholy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a littlereviving in our bondage.
9:9 For we were bondmen; yet our God hath not forsaken us in ourbondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings ofPersia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and torepair the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and inJerusalem.
9:10 And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? for we haveforsaken thy commandments, 
9:11 Which thou hast commanded by thyservants the prophets, saying, The land, unto which ye go to possessit, is an unclean land with the filthiness of the people of the lands,with their abominations, which have filled it from one end to anotherwith their uncleanness.
9:12 Now therefore give not your daughters unto their sons, neithertake their daughters unto your sons, nor seek their peace or theirwealth for ever: that ye may be strong, and eat the good of the land,and leave it for an inheritance to your children for ever.
9:13 And after all that is come upon us for our evil deeds, and forour great trespass, seeing that thou our God hast punished us lessthan our iniquities deserve, and hast given us such deliverance asthis; 
9:14 Should we again break thy commandments, and join inaffinity with the people of these abominations? wouldest not thou beangry with us till thou hadst consumed us, so that there should be noremnant nor escaping?  
9:15 O LORD God of Israel, thou art righteous:for we remain yet escaped, as it is this day: behold, we are beforethee in our trespasses: for we cannot stand before thee because ofthis.
10:1 Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, weeping andcasting himself down before the house of God, there assembled unto himout of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children:for the people wept very sore.
10:2 And Shechaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam,answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, andhave taken strange wives of the people of the land: yet now there ishope in Israel concerning this thing.
10:3 Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away allthe wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel ofmy lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God; andlet it be done according to the law.
10:4 Arise; for this matter belongeth unto thee: we also will be withthee: be of good courage, and do it.
10:5 Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, the Levites, and allIsrael, to swear that they should do according to this word. And theysware.
10:6 Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went into thechamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came thither, hedid eat no bread, nor drink water: for he mourned because of thetransgression of them that had been carried away.
10:7 And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem untoall the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselvestogether unto Jerusalem; 
10:8 And that whosoever would not come withinthree days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders,all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from thecongregation of those that had been carried away.
10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselvestogether unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, onthe twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the streetof the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for thegreat rain.
10:10 And Ezra the priest stood up, and said unto them, Ye havetransgressed, and have taken strange wives, to increase the trespassof Israel.
10:11 Now therefore make confession unto the LORD God of your fathers,and do his pleasure: and separate yourselves from the people of theland, and from the strange wives.
10:12 Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice,As thou hast said, so must we do.
10:13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and weare not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day ortwo: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.
10:14 Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let allthem which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointedtimes, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges thereof,until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.
10:15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvahwere employed about this matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai theLevite helped them.
10:16 And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest,with certain chief of the fathers, after the house of their fathers,and all of them by their names, were separated, and sat down in thefirst day of the tenth month to examine the matter.
10:17 And they made an end with all the men that had taken strangewives by the first day of the first month.
10:18 And among the sons of the priests there were found that hadtaken strange wives: namely, of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak,and his brethren; Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.
10:19 And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives;and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass.
10:20 And of the sons of Immer; Hanani, and Zebadiah.
10:21 And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah,and Jehiel, and Uzziah.
10:22 And of the sons of Pashur; Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael,Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
10:23 Also of the Levites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the sameis Kelita,) Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
10:24 Of the singers also; Eliashib: and of the porters; Shallum, andTelem, and Uri.
10:25 Moreover of Israel: of the sons of Parosh; Ramiah, and Jeziah,and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.
10:26 And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, andAbdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliah.
10:27 And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, andJeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
10:28 Of the sons also of Bebai; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, andAthlai.
10:29 And of the sons of Bani; Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub,and Sheal, and Ramoth.
10:30 And of the sons of Pahathmoab; Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah,Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
10:31 And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah,Shimeon, 
10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.
10:33 Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet,Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.
10:34 Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel, 
10:35 Benaiah,Bedeiah, Chelluh, 
10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 
10:37 Mattaniah,Mattenai, and Jaasau, 
10:38 And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei, 
10:39 AndShelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah, 
10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
10:41 Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah, 
10:42 Shallum, Amariah, andJoseph.
10:43 Of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau,and Joel, Benaiah.
10:44 All these had taken strange wives: and some of them had wives bywhom they had children.