1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was uponthe face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of thewaters.
1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the lightfrom the darkness.
1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.And the evening and the morning were the first day.
1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters,and let it divide the waters from the waters.
1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which wereunder the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:and it was so.
1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and themorning were the second day.
1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered togetherunto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.
1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together ofthe waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.
1:11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yieldingseed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed isin itself, upon the earth: and it was so.
1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed afterhis kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, afterhis kind: and God saw that it was good.
1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.
1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavento divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and forseasons, and for days, and years: 
1:15 And let them be for lights inthe firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it wasso.
1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.
1:17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give lightupon the earth, 
1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, andto divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.
1:19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the movingcreature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in theopen firmament of heaven.
1:21 And God created great whales, and every living creature thatmoveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind,and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fillthe waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.
1:23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.
1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature afterhis kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after hiskind: and it was so.
1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattleafter their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth afterhis kind: and God saw that it was good.
1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowlof the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and overevery creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God createdhe him; male and female created he them.
1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, andmultiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominionover the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over everyliving thing that moveth upon the earth.
1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the whichis the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there islife, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.
1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it wasvery good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host ofthem.
2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; andhe rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because thatin it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth whenthey were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and theheavens, 
2:5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had notcaused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till theground.
2:6 But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the wholeface of the ground.
2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, andbreathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a livingsoul.
2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there heput the man whom he had formed.
2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that ispleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in themidst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thenceit was parted, and became into four heads.
2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth thewhole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 
2:12 And the gold of thatland is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.
2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it thatcompasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it whichgoeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.
2:15 And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden ofEden to dress it and to keep it.
2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of thegarden thou mayest freely eat: 
2:17 But of the tree of the knowledgeof good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thoueatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should bealone; I will make him an help meet for him.
2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of thefield, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to seewhat he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every livingcreature, that was the name thereof.
2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found anhelp meet for him.
2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and heslept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh insteadthereof; 
2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, madehe a woman, and brought her unto the man.
2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of myflesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shallcleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were notashamed.
3:1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field whichthe LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said,Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?  
3:2 And the woman saidunto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden,God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lestye die.
3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 
3:5 For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shallbe opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.
3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and thatit was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make onewise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also untoher husband with her; and he did eat.
3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that theywere naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselvesaprons.
3:8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden inthe cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from thepresence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.
3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where artthou?  
3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I wasafraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.
3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eatenof the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, shegave me of the tree, and I did eat.
3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hastdone? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.
3:14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast donethis, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of thefield; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all thedays of thy life: 
3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and thewoman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,and thou shalt bruise his heel.
3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow andthy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thydesire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voiceof thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee,saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 
3:18 Thornsalso and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat theherb of the field; 
3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: fordust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.
3:20 And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the motherof all living.
3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats ofskins, and clothed them.
3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, toknow good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take alsoof the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 
3:23 Therefore theLORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the groundfrom whence he was taken.
3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the gardenof Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keepthe way of the tree of life.
4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, andsaid, I have gotten a man from the LORD.
4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper ofsheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of thefruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.
4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and ofthe fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to hisoffering: 
4:5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
4:6 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thycountenance fallen?  
4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not beaccepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And untothee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.
4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, whenthey were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother,and slew him.
4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And hesaid, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?  
4:10 And he said, Whathast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me fromthe ground.
4:11 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened hermouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 
4:12 When thoutillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee herstrength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.
4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I canbear.
4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of theearth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive anda vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every onethat findeth me shall slay me.
4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a markupon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in theland of Nod, on the east of Eden.
4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and hebuilded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of hisson, Enoch.
4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: andMehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.
4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah,and the name of the other Zillah.
4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents,and of such as have cattle.
4:21 And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all suchas handle the harp and organ.
4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of everyartificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.
4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man tomy wounding, and a young man to my hurt.
4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy andsevenfold.
4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called hisname Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed insteadof Abel, whom Cain slew.
4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called hisname Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.
5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that Godcreated man, in the likeness of God made he him; 
5:2 Male and femalecreated he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in theday when they were created.
5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in hisown likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 
5:4 Andthe days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years:and he begat sons and daughters: 
5:5 And all the days that Adam livedwere nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.
5:6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 
5:7 AndSeth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, andbegat sons and daughters: 
5:8 And all the days of Seth were ninehundred and twelve years: and he died.
5:9 And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 
5:10 And Enos livedafter he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sonsand daughters: 
5:11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred andfive years: and he died.
5:12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 
5:13 AndCainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,and begat sons and daughters: 
5:14 And all the days of Cainan werenine hundred and ten years: and he died.
5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 
5:16 And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirtyyears, and begat sons and daughters: 
5:17 And all the days ofMahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.
5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begatEnoch: 
5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years,and begat sons and daughters: 
5:20 And all the days of Jared were ninehundred sixty and two years: and he died.
5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 
5:22 And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundredyears, and begat sons and daughters: 
5:23 And all the days of Enochwere three hundred sixty and five years: 
5:24 And Enoch walked withGod: and he was not; for God took him.
5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begatLamech.
5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eightyand two years, and begat sons and daughters: 
5:27 And all the days ofMethuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
5:28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat ason: 
5:29 And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfortus concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the groundwhich the LORD hath cursed.
5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and fiveyears, and begat sons and daughters: 
5:31 And all the days of Lamechwere seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham,and Japheth.
6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of theearth, and daughters were born unto them, 
6:2 That the sons of God sawthe daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives ofall which they chose.
6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, forthat he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twentyyears.
6:4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they barechildren to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men ofrenown.
6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, andthat every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evilcontinually.
6:6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and itgrieved him at his heart.
6:7 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from theface of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, andthe fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.
6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.
6:9 These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfectin his generations, and Noah walked with God.
6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filledwith violence.
6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; forall flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, Iwill destroy them with the earth.
6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in theark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The lengthof the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fiftycubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
6:16 A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thoufinish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the sidethereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.
6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon theearth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from underheaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.
6:18 But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt comeinto the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wiveswith thee.
6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shaltthou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall bemale and female.
6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, ofevery creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sortshall come unto thee, to keep them alive.
6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shaltgather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.
6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so didhe.
7:1 And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into theark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.
7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the maleand his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male andhis female.
7:3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; tokeep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earthforty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I havemade will I destroy from off the face of the earth.
7:5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.
7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters wasupon the earth.
7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wiveswith him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 
7:9 There went in twoand two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God hadcommanded Noah.
7:10 And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of theflood were upon the earth.
7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month,the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountainsof the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth,the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sonswith them, into the ark; 
7:14 They, and every beast after his kind,and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing thatcreepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,every bird of every sort.
7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of allflesh, wherein is the breath of life.
7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, asGod had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.
7:17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the watersincreased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.
7:18 And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon theearth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all thehigh hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.
7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountainswere covered.
7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, andof cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepethupon the earth, and every man: 
7:22 All in whose nostrils was thebreath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.
7:23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the faceof the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and thefowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noahonly remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fiftydays.
8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all thecattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass overthe earth, and the waters asswaged; 
8:2 The fountains also of the deepand the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven wasrestrained; 
8:3 And the waters returned from off the earthcontinually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days thewaters were abated.
8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day ofthe month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in thetenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of themountains seen.
8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened thewindow of the ark which he had made: 
8:7 And he sent forth a raven,which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from offthe earth.
8:8 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters wereabated from off the face of the ground; 
8:9 But the dove found no restfor the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, forthe waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth hishand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.
8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth thedove out of the ark; 
8:11 And the dove came in to him in the evening;and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew thatthe waters were abated from off the earth.
8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;which returned not again unto him any more.
8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in thefirst month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up fromoff the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of themonth, was the earth dried.
8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying, 
8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.
8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, ofall flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thingthat creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in theearth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'wives with him: 
8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and everyfowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, wentforth out of the ark.
8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every cleanbeast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on thealtar.
8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in hisheart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; forthe imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will Iagain smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold andheat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.
9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Befruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beastof the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that movethupon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand arethey delivered.
9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as thegreen herb have I given you all things.
9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shallye not eat.
9:5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand ofevery beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand ofevery man's brother will I require the life of man.
9:6 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for inthe image of God made he man.
9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly inthe earth, and multiply therein.
9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 
9:9 AndI, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed afteryou; 
9:10 And with every living creature that is with you, of thefowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; fromall that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall allflesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shallthere any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I makebetween me and you and every living creature that is with you, forperpetual generations: 
9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shallbe for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 
9:15 And I will remember mycovenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of allflesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy allflesh.
9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, thatI may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every livingcreature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, whichI have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, andHam, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.
9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earthoverspread.
9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncoveredwithin his tent.
9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,and told his two brethren without.
9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both theirshoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of theirfather; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father'snakedness.
9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son haddone unto him.
9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he beunto his brethren.
9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall behis servant.
9:27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents ofShem; and Canaan shall be his servant.
9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: andhe died.
10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, andJapheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.
10:2 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, andTubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
10:3 And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
10:4 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, andDodanim.
10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.
10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.
10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.
10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, andAccad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
10:11 Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and thecity Rehoboth, and Calah, 
10:12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah:the same is a great city.
10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) andCaphtorim.
10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 
10:16 And theJebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 
10:17 And the Hivite,and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
10:18 And the Arvadite, and theZemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of theCanaanites spread abroad.
10:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comestto Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, andAdmah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.
10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after theirtongues, in their countries, and in their nations.
10:21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, thebrother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.
10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,and Aram.
10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.
10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; forin his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, andJerah, 
10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
10:28 And Obal, andAbimael, and Sheba, 
10:29 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all thesewere the sons of Joktan.
10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar amount of the east.
10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after theirtongues, in their lands, after their nations.
10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after theirgenerations, in their nations: and by these were the nations dividedin the earth after the flood.
11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.
11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that theyfound a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.
11:3 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burnthem thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they formorter.
11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whosetop may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we bescattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which thechildren of men builded.
11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have allone language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will berestrained from them, which they have imagined to do.
11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, thatthey may not understand one another's speech.
11:8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face ofall the earth: and they left off to build the city.
11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD didthere confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did theLORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
11:10 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred yearsold, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 
11:11 And Shemlived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons anddaughters.
11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 
11:13 And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,and begat sons and daughters.
11:14 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 
11:15 And Salahlived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sonsand daughters.
11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 
11:17 AndEber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, andbegat sons and daughters.
11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 
11:19 And Peleglived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sonsand daughters.
11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 
11:21 AndReu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begatsons and daughters.
11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 
11:23 And Seruglived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons anddaughters.
11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 
11:25 And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,and begat sons and daughters.
11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, andHaran.
11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram,Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.
11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of hisnativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wifewas Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter ofHaran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.
11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son'sson, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and theywent forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land ofCanaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terahdied in Haran.
12:1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that Iwill shew thee: 
12:2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and Iwill bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be ablessing: 
12:3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse himthat curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth beblessed.
12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot wentwith him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departedout of Haran.
12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and alltheir substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they hadgotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan;and into the land of Canaan they came.
12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, untothe plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
12:7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will Igive this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, whoappeared unto him.
12:8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east:and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the nameof the LORD.
12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down intoEgypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.
12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art afair woman to look upon: 
12:12 Therefore it shall come to pass, whenthe Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife:and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well withme for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.
12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, theEgyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her beforePharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
12:16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, andoxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses,and camels.
12:17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plaguesbecause of Sarai Abram's wife.
12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hastdone unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?  
12:19 Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me towife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent himaway, and his wife, and all that he had.
13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that hehad, and Lot with him, into the south.
13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, untothe place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel andHai; 
13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which he had make there at thefirst: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.
13:5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, andtents.
13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwelltogether: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwelltogether.
13:7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle andthe herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzitedwelled then in the land.
13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we bebrethren.
13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right;or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.
13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan,that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodomand Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,as thou comest unto Zoar.
13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyedeast: and they separated themselves the one from the other.
13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in thecities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.
13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORDexceedingly.
13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated fromhim, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou artnorthward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 
13:15 For allthe land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever.
13:16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if aman can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also benumbered.
13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in thebreadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.
13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain ofMamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.
14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king ofnations; 
14:2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and withBirsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king ofZeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.
14:3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which isthe salt sea.
14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth yearthey rebelled.
14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings thatwere with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and theZuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
14:6 And theHorites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.
14:7 And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, andsmote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, thatdwelt in Hazezontamar.
14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela(the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale ofSiddim; 
14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal kingof nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;four kings with five.
14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings ofSodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fledto the mountain.
14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all theirvictuals, and went their way.
14:12 And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom,and his goods, and departed.
14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew;for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, andbrother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.
14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, hearmed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred andeighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.
14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, bynight, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on theleft hand of Damascus.
14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again hisbrother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return fromthe slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, atthe valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.
14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: andhe was the priest of the most high God.
14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most highGod, possessor of heaven and earth: 
14:20 And blessed be the most highGod, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave himtithes of all.
14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, andtake the goods to thyself.
14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine handunto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, andthat I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say,I have made Abram rich: 
14:24 Save only that which the young men haveeaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,and Mamre; let them take their portion.
15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in avision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceedinggreat reward.
15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I gochildless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,one born in my house is mine heir.
15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, Thisshall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine ownbowels shall be thine heir.
15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now towardheaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and hesaid unto him, So shall thy seed be.
15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him forrighteousness.
15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Urof the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.
15:8 And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inheritit?  
15:9 And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and aturtledove, and a young pigeon.
15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.
15:11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove themaway.
15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.
15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall bea stranger in a land that is not their's, and shall serve them; andthey shall afflict them four hundred years; 
15:14 And also thatnation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall theycome out with great substance.
15:15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buriedin a good old age.
15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: forthe iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.
15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it wasdark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed betweenthose pieces.
15:18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto thegreat river, the river Euphrates: 
15:19 The Kenites, and theKenizzites, and the Kadmonites, 
15:20 And the Hittites, and thePerizzites, and the Rephaims, 
15:21 And the Amorites, and theCanaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.
16:1 Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had anhandmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrainedme from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I mayobtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
16:3 And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, afterAbram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to herhusband Abram to be his wife.
16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she sawthat she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given mymaid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I wasdespised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.
16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; doto her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, shefled from her face.
16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in thewilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whitherwilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.
16:9 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress,and submit thyself under her hands.
16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thyseed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
16:11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art withchild and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; becausethe LORD hath heard thy affliction.
16:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presenceof all his brethren.
16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, ThouGod seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him thatseeth me?  
16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,it is between Kadesh and Bered.
16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name,which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bareIshmael to Abram.
17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appearedto Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,and be thou perfect.
17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and willmultiply thee exceedingly.
17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 
17:4 As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be afather of many nations.
17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy nameshall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.
17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nationsof thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seedafter thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be aGod unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.
17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the landwherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for aneverlasting possession; and I will be their God.
17:9 And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.
17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you andthy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.
17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shallbe a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.
17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you,every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, orbought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.
17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thymoney, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in yourflesh for an everlasting covenant.
17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin isnot circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hathbroken my covenant.
17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt notcall her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.
17:16 And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, Iwill bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peopleshall be of her.
17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in hisheart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old?and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?  
17:18 And Abrahamsaid unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!  
17:19 And Godsaid, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt callhis name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for aneverlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.
17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessedhim, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shallbear unto thee at this set time in the next year.
17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in hishouse, and all that were bought with his money, every male among themen of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin inthe selfsame day, as God had said unto him.
17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he wascircumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he wascircumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael hisson.
17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought withmoney of the stranger, were circumcised with him.
18:1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he satin the tent door in the heat of the day; 
18:2 And he lift up his eyesand looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, heran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward theground, 
18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thysight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 
18:4 Let a littlewater, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselvesunder the tree: 
18:5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfortye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye cometo your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.
18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Makeready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakesupon the hearth.
18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.
18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and theydid eat.
18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said,Behold, in the tent.
18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to thetime of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarahheard it in the tent door, which was behind him.
18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and itceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxedold shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?  
18:13 And the LORDsaid unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of asurety bear a child, which am old?  
18:14 Is any thing too hard forthe LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according tothe time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.
18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.
18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: andAbraham went with them to bring them on the way.
18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which Ido; 
18:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mightynation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know him, that he will command his children and hishousehold after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to dojustice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that whichhe hath spoken of him.
18:20 And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah isgreat, and because their sin is very grievous; 
18:21 I will go downnow, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry ofit, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.
18:22 And the men turned their faces from thence, and went towardSodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.
18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy therighteous with the wicked?  
18:24 Peradventure there be fiftyrighteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare theplace for the fifty righteous that are therein?  
18:25 That be farfrom thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with thewicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be farfrom thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?  
18:26 Andthe LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon meto speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes: 
18:28 Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thoudestroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find thereforty and five, I will not destroy it.
18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure thereshall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty'ssake.
18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I willspeak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, Iwill not do it, if I find thirty there.
18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto theLORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, Iwill not destroy it for twenty's sake.
18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yetbut this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, Iwill not destroy it for ten's sake.
18:33 And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing withAbraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.
19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in thegate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowedhimself with his face toward the ground; 
19:2 And he said, Behold now,my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarryall night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go onyour ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street allnight.
19:3 And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him,and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bakeunleavened bread, and they did eat.
19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men ofSodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the peoplefrom every quarter: 
19:5 And they called unto Lot, and said unto him,Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them outunto us, that we may know them.
19:6 And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door afterhim, 
19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.
19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; letme, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is goodin your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came theyunder the shadow of my roof.
19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellowcame in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we dealworse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,even Lot, and came near to break the door.
19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the houseto them, and shut to the door.
19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house withblindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves tofind the door.
19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son inlaw, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in thecity, bring them out of this place: 
19:13 For we will destroy thisplace, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of theLORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.
19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which marriedhis daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORDwill destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sonsin law.
19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here;lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and uponthe hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORDbeing merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set himwithout the city.
19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither staythou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.
19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD: 
19:19 Behold now,thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thymercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannotescape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 
19:20 Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shalllive.
19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning thisthing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thouhast spoken.
19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thoube come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.
19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.
19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone andfire from the LORD out of heaven; 
19:25 And he overthrew those cities,and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and thatwhich grew upon the ground.
19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became apillar of salt.
19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where hestood before the LORD: 
19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smokeof the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.
19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of theoverthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.
19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and histwo daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dweltin a cave, he and his two daughters.
19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, andthere is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner ofall the earth: 
19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and wewill lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and thefirstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not whenshe lay down, nor when she arose.
19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said untothe younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make himdrink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that wemay preserve seed of our father.
19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and theyounger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she laydown, nor when she arose.
19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.
19:37 And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: thesame is the father of the Moabites unto this day.
19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his nameBenammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto thisday.
20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, anddwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: andAbimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken;for she is a man's wife.
20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thouslay also a righteous nation?  
20:5 Said he not unto me, She is mysister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in theintegrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.
20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didstthis in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee fromsinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
20:7 Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, andhe shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore hernot, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that arethine.
20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all hisservants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men weresore afraid.
20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thoudone unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought onme and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me thatought not to be done.
20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thouhast done this thing?  
20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me formy wife's sake.
20:12 And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of myfather, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
20:13 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from myfather's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thoushalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me,He is my brother.
20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, andwomenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah hiswife.
20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell whereit pleaseth thee.
20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother athousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of theeyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she wasreproved.
20:17 So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and hiswife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.
20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house ofAbimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.
21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did untoSarah as he had spoken.
21:2 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, atthe set time of which God had spoken to him.
21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, asGod had commanded him.
21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was bornunto him.
21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hearwill laugh with me.
21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah shouldhave given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.
21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a greatfeast the same day that Isaac was weaned.
21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had bornunto Abraham, mocking.
21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and herson: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, evenwith Isaac.
21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because ofhis son.
21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sightbecause of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarahhath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thyseed be called.
21:13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,because he is thy seed.
21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and abottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered inthe wilderness of Beersheba.
21:15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the childunder one of the shrubs.
21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off,as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of thechild. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.
21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God calledto Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar?fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.
21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I willmake him a great nation.
21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and shewent, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
21:20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in thewilderness, and became an archer.
21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took hima wife out of the land of Egypt.
21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol thechief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with theein all that thou doest: 
21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by Godthat thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with myson's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee,thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.
21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.
21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, whichAbimelech's servants had violently taken away.
21:26 And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neitherdidst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.
21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech;and both of them made a covenant.
21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambswhich thou hast set by themselves?  
21:30 And he said, For these sevenewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness untome, that I have digged this well.
21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there theysware both of them.
21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into theland of the Philistines.
21:33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there onthe name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.
22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did temptAbraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.
22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thoulovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there fora burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clavethe wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the placeof which God had told him.
22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw theplace afar off.
22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass;and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.
22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it uponIsaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and theywent both of them together.
22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: andhe said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?  
22:8 And Abraham said, Myson, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so theywent both of them together.
22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abrahambuilt an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac hisson, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.
22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slayhis son.
22:11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, andsaid, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.
22:12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thouany thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thouhast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.
22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behindhim a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and tookthe ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of hisson.
22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it issaid to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.
22:15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven thesecond time, 
22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,thine only son: 
22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, and inmultiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, andas the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possessthe gate of his enemies; 
22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nationsof the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.
22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up andwent together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.
22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was toldAbraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thybrother Nahor; 
22:21 Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, andKemuel the father of Aram, 
22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash,and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,Abraham's brother.
22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.
23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: thesewere the years of the life of Sarah.
23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land ofCanaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto thesons of Heth, saying, 
23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury mydead out of my sight.
23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 
23:6 Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice ofour sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee hissepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.
23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of theland, even to the children of Heth.
23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that Ishould bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me toEphron the son of Zohar, 
23:9 That he may give me the cave ofMachpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for asmuch money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of aburyingplace amongst you.
23:10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron theHittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, evenof all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 
23:11 Nay, mylord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, Igive it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee:bury thy dead.
23:12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.
23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of theland, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I willgive thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my deadthere.
23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 
23:15 My lord,hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.
23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephronthe silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.
23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was beforeMamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the treesthat were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, weremade sure 
23:18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of thechildren of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of thefield of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land ofCanaan.
23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure untoAbraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.
24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD hadblessed Abraham in all things.
24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruledover all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 
24:3 And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the Godof the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of thedaughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell: 
24:4 But thou shaltgo unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my sonIsaac.
24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not bewilling to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son againunto the land from whence thou camest?  
24:6 And Abraham said untohim, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.
24:7 The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, andfrom the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that swareunto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall sendhis angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son fromthence.
24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thoushalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.
24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham hismaster, and sware to him concerning that matter.
24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, anddeparted; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and hearose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.
24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a wellof water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go outto draw water.
24:12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, sendme good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.
24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters ofthe men of the city come out to draw water: 
24:14 And let it come topass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, Ipray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will givethy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointedfor thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewedkindness unto my master.
24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife ofNahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.
24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither hadany man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled herpitcher, and came up.
24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,drink a little water of thy pitcher.
24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down herpitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will drawwater for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.
24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ranagain unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.
24:21 And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether theLORD had made his journey prosperous or not.
24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that theman took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two braceletsfor her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 
24:23 And said, Whosedaughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father'shouse for us to lodge in?  
24:24 And she said unto him, I am thedaughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.
24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provenderenough, and room to lodge in.
24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.
24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, whohath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I beingin the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.
24:28 And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house thesethings.
24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ranout unto the man, unto the well.
24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets uponhis sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and,behold, he stood by the camels at the well.
24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; whereforestandest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for thecamels.
24:32 And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, andgave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet,and the men's feet that were with him.
24:33 And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I willnot eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.
24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant.
24:35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is becomegreat: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold,and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.
24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she wasold: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.
24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wifeto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, andtake a wife unto my son.
24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will notfollow me.
24:40 And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send hisangel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife formy son of my kindred, and of my father's house: 
24:41 Then shalt thoube clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and ifthey give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.
24:42 And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of mymaster Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 
24:43 Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, thatwhen the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me,I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 
24:44 And she sayto me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let thesame be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master'sson.
24:45 And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekahcame forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down untothe well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I praythee.
24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder,and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,and she made the camels drink also.
24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And shesaid, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him:and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.
24:48 And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessedthe LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right wayto take my master's brother's daughter unto his son.
24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tellme: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to theleft.
24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedethfrom the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.
24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her bethy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.
24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard theirwords, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.
24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels ofgold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to herbrother and to her mother precious things.
24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said,Send me away unto my master.
24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide withus a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hathprospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.
24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at hermouth.
24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go withthis man? And she said, I will go.
24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, andAbraham's servant, and his men.
24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art oursister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seedpossess the gate of those which hate them.
24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon thecamels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and wenthis way.
24:62 And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dweltin the south country.
24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: andhe lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.
24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, shelighted off the camel.
24:65 For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walkethin the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master:therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.
24:66 And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.
24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and tookRebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac wascomforted after his mother's death.
25:1 Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.
25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, andIshbak, and Shuah.
25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan wereAsshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah,and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abrahamgave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived,eastward, unto the east country.
25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which helived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.
25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, anold man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.
25:9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave ofMachpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, whichis before Mamre; 
25:10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sonsof Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessedhis son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.
25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whomHagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 
25:13 Andthese are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, accordingto their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar,and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
25:14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
25:15 Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 
25:16 These are the sonsof Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by theircastles; twelve princes according to their nations.
25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred andthirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and wasgathered unto his people.
25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, asthou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all hisbrethren.
25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abrahambegat Isaac: 
25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekahto wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sisterto Laban the Syrian.
25:21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she wasbarren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wifeconceived.
25:22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, Ifit be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.
25:23 And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and twomanner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the onepeople shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shallserve the younger.
25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, therewere twins in her womb.
25:25 And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; andthey called his name Esau.
25:26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold onEsau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescoreyears old when she bare them.
25:27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of thefield; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.
25:28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: butRebekah loved Jacob.
25:29 And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he wasfaint: 
25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with thatsame red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.
25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.
25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profitshall this birthright do to me?  
25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to methis day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright untoJacob.
25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he dideat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised hisbirthright.
26:1 And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine thatwas in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of thePhilistines unto Gerar.
26:2 And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt;dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 
26:3 Sojourn in thisland, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, andunto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform theoath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 
26:4 And I will make thyseed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seedall these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of theearth be blessed; 
26:5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and keptmy charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 
26:7 And the men of the place asked himof his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, Sheis my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me forRebekah; because she was fair to look upon.
26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, thatAbimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.
26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she isthy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said untohim, Because I said, Lest I die for her.
26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one ofthe people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldesthave brought guiltiness upon us.
26:11 And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheththis man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
26:12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year anhundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.
26:13 And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until hebecame very great: 
26:14 For he had possession of flocks, andpossession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistinesenvied him.
26:15 For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in thedays of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, andfilled them with earth.
26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art muchmightier than we.
26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley ofGerar, and dwelt there.
26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had diggedin the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stoppedthem after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after thenames by which his father had called them.
26:19 And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there awell of springing water.
26:20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen,saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek;because they strove with him.
26:21 And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and hecalled the name of it Sitnah.
26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and forthat they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and hesaid, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitfulin the land.
26:23 And he went up from thence to Beersheba.
26:24 And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I amthe God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and willbless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.
26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of theLORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged awell.
26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of hisfriends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing yehate me, and have sent me away from you?  
26:28 And they said, We sawcertainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be nowan oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make acovenant with thee; 
26:29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have nottouched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and havesent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.
26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one toanother: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him inpeace.
26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came,and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said untohim, We have found water.
26:33 And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city isBeersheba unto this day.
26:34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith thedaughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon theHittite: 
26:35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes weredim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and saidunto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.
27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of mydeath: 
27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiverand thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 
27:4 And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that Imay eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.
27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau wentto the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thyfather speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 
27:7 Bring me venison, andmake me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORDbefore my death.
27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which Icommand thee.
27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids ofthe goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such ashe loveth: 
27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he mayeat, and that he may bless thee before his death.
27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother isa hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 
27:12 My father peradventure willfeel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring acurse upon me, and not a blessing.
27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: onlyobey my voice, and go fetch me them.
27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: andhis mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.
27:15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, whichwere with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands,and upon the smooth of his neck: 
27:17 And she gave the savoury meatand the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said,Here am I; who art thou, my son?  
27:19 And Jacob said unto hisfather, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badestme: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul maybless me.
27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found itso quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought itto me.
27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I mayfeel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.
27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, andsaid, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as hisbrother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.
27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.
27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son'svenison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him,and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank.
27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me,my son.
27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell ofhis raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is asthe smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed: 
27:28 Therefore Godgive thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, andplenty of corn and wine: 
27:29 Let people serve thee, and nations bowdown to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bowdown to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be hethat blesseth thee.
27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end ofblessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence ofIsaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
27:31 And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto hisfather, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of hisson's venison, that thy soul may bless me.
27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, Iam thy son, thy firstborn Esau.
27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is hethat hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of allbefore thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall beblessed.
27:34 And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with agreat and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me,even me also, O my father.
27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken awaythy blessing.
27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hathsupplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and,behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou notreserved a blessing for me?  
27:37 And Isaac answered and said untoEsau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have Igiven to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustainedhim: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?  
27:38 And Esau saidunto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, evenme also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.
27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thydwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heavenfrom above; 
27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt servethy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have thedominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.
27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith hisfather blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourningfor my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.
27:42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: andshe sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold,thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing tokill thee.
27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Labanmy brother to Haran; 
27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thybrother's fury turn away; 
27:45 Until thy brother's anger turn awayfrom thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I willsend, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of youboth in one day?  
27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of mylife because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of thedaughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of theland, what good shall my life do me?  
28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, andblessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take awife of the daughters of Canaan.
28:2 Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother'sfather; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thymother's brother.
28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiplythee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 
28:4 And give theethe blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thoumayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gaveunto Abraham.
28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban,son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau'smother.
28:6 When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away toPadanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed himhe gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of thedaughers of Canaan; 
28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and hismother, and was gone to Padanaram; 
28:8 And Esau seeing that thedaughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 
28:9 Then went Esauunto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath thedaughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be hiswife.
28:10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.
28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there allnight, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of thatplace, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place tosleep.
28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and thetop of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascendingand descending on it.
28:13 And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORDGod of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thouliest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; 
28:14 And thy seedshall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to thewest, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in theeand in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all placeswhither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for Iwill not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken tothee of.
28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORDis in this place; and I knew it not.
28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this isnone other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone thathe had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oilupon the top of it.
28:19 And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name ofthat city was called Luz at the first.
28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and willkeep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, andraiment to put on, 
28:21 So that I come again to my father's house inpeace; then shall the LORD be my God: 
28:22 And this stone, which Ihave set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thoushalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.
29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of thepeople of the east.
29:2 And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, therewere three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well theywatered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.
29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled thestone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stoneagain upon the well's mouth in his place.
29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And theysaid, Of Haran are we.
29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And theysaid, We know him.
29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well:and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.
29:7 And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that thecattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go andfeed them.
29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gatheredtogether, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then wewater the sheep.
29:9 And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father'ssheep; for she kept them.
29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Labanhis mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother,that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, andwatered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and thathe was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.
29:13 And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob hissister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissedhim, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.
29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. Andhe abode with him the space of a month.
29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother,shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thywages be?  
29:16 And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elderwas Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
29:17 Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and wellfavoured.
29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven yearsfor Rachel thy younger daughter.
29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than thatI should give her to another man: abide with me.
29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed untohim but a few days, for the love he had to her.
29:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days arefulfilled, that I may go in unto her.
29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made afeast.
29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah hisdaughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.
29:24 And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for anhandmaid.
29:25 And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah:and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not Iserve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?
29:26 And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to givethe younger before the firstborn.
29:27 Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the servicewhich thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.
29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachelhis daughter to wife also.
29:29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to beher maid.
29:30 And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel morethan Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.
29:31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb:but Rachel was barren.
29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his nameReuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction;now therefore my husband will love me.
29:33 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because theLORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also:and she called his name Simeon.
29:34 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this timewill my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons:therefore was his name called Levi.
29:35 And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now willI praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and leftbearing.
30:1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachelenvied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else Idie.
30:2 And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am Iin God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?
30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and sheshall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.
30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went inunto her.
30:5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard myvoice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.
30:7 And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a secondson.
30:8 And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with mysister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.
30:9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah hermaid, and gave her Jacob to wife.
30:10 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.
30:11 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.
30:12 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.
30:13 And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call meblessed: and she called his name Asher.
30:14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and foundmandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. ThenRachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.
30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast takenmy husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? AndRachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son'smandrakes.
30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah wentout to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely Ihave hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her thatnight.
30:17 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacobthe fifth son.
30:18 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have givenmy maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.
30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.
30:20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will myhusband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and shecalled his name Zebulun.
30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and openedher womb.
30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken awaymy reproach: 
30:24 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORDshall add to me another son.
30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacobsaid unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, andto my country.
30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.
30:27 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour inthine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hathblessed me for thy sake.
30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.
30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, andhow thy cattle was with me.
30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is nowincreased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since mycoming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?  
30:31 And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt notgive me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will againfeed and keep thy flock.
30:32 I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thenceall the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle amongthe sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of suchshall be my hire.
30:33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when itshall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckledand spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall becounted stolen with me.
30:34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thyword.
30:35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked andspotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, andevery one that had some white in it, and all the brown among thesheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.
30:36 And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: andJacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.
30:37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel andchesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the whiteappear which was in the rods.
30:38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in thegutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, thatthey should conceive when they came to drink.
30:39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forthcattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.
30:40 And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of theflocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock ofLaban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not untoLaban's cattle.
30:41 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle didconceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle inthe gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.
30:42 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so thefeebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
30:43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, andmaidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.
31:1 And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath takenaway all that was our father's; and of that which was our father'shath he gotten all this glory.
31:2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it wasnot toward him as before.
31:3 And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thyfathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.
31:4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto hisflock, 
31:5 And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, thatit is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been withme.
31:6 And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.
31:7 And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times;but God suffered him not to hurt me.
31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all thecattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall bethy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.
31:9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and giventhem to me.
31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, thatI lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams whichleaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.
31:11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob:And I said, Here am I.
31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams whichleap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for Ihave seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.
31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, andwhere thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from thisland, and return unto the land of thy kindred.
31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet anyportion or inheritance for us in our father's house?  
31:15 Are we notcounted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devouredalso our money.
31:16 For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that isours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said untothee, do.
31:17 Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
31:18 And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which hehad gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten inPadanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
31:19 And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen theimages that were her father's.
31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that hetold him not that he fled.
31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed overthe river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.
31:22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.
31:23 And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him sevendays' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.
31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and saidunto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in themount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.
31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou haststolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captivestaken with the sword?  
31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly,and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sentthee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
31:28 And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thouhast now done foolishly in so doing.
31:29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God ofyour father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed thatthou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
31:30 And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sorelongedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen mygods?  
31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I wasafraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thydaughters from me.
31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: beforeour brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee.For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.
31:33 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and intothe two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he outof Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.
31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel'sfurniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, butfound them not.
31:35 And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that Icannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And hesearched but found not the images.
31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answeredand said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hastso hotly pursued after me?  
31:37 Whereas thou hast searched all mystuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it herebefore my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt usboth.
31:38 This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy shegoats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I noteaten.
31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I barethe loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen byday, or stolen by night.
31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost bynight; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.
31:41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served theefourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle:and thou hast changed my wages ten times.
31:42 Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear ofIsaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. Godhath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked theeyesternight.
31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are mydaughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are mycattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this dayunto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
31:44 Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; andlet it be for a witness between me and thee.
31:45 And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.
31:46 And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they tookstones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.
31:47 And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.
31:48 And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee thisday.Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 
31:49 And Mizpah; for hesaid, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one fromanother.
31:50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take otherwives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witnessbetwixt me and thee.
31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold thispillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 
31:52 This heap bewitness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over thisheap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and thispillar unto me, for harm.
31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of theirfather, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his fatherIsaac.
31:54 Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called hisbrethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all nightin the mount.
31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons andhis daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned untohis place.
32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
32:2 And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and hecalled the name of that place Mahanaim.
32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto theland of Seir, the country of Edom.
32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lordEsau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, andstayed there until now: 
32:5 And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, andmenservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, thatI may find grace in thy sight.
32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thybrother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred menwith him.
32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided thepeople that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels,into two bands; 
32:8 And said, If Esau come to the one company, andsmite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.
32:9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my fatherIsaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and tothy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: 
32:10 I am not worthy ofthe least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hastshewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan;and now I am become two bands.
32:11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from thehand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and themother with the children.
32:12 And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seedas the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
32:13 And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which cameto his hand a present for Esau his brother; 
32:14 Two hundred shegoats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 
32:15 Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls,twenty she asses, and ten foals.
32:16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every droveby themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, andput a space betwixt drove and drove.
32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brothermeeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whithergoest thou? and whose are these before thee?  
32:18 Then thou shaltsay, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lordEsau: and, behold, also he is behind us.
32:19 And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all thatfollowed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau,when ye find him.
32:20 And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. Forhe said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, andafterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.
32:21 So went the present over before him: and himself lodged thatnight in the company.
32:22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his twowomenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.
32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent overthat he had.
32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with himuntil the breaking of the day.
32:25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touchedthe hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out ofjoint, as he wrestled with him.
32:26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, Iwill not let thee go, except thou bless me.
32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.
32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel:for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hastprevailed.
32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And heblessed him there.
32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seenGod face to face, and my life is preserved.
32:31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and hehalted upon his thigh.
32:32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew whichshrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: becausehe touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.
33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came,and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah,and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.
33:2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leahand her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.
33:3 And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the groundseven times, until he came near to his brother.
33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck,and kissed him: and they wept.
33:5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children;and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which Godhath graciously given thy servant.
33:6 Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and theybowed themselves.
33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves:and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.
33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? Andhe said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.
33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hastunto thyself.
33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace inthy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I haveseen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wastpleased with me.
33:11 Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; becauseGod hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And heurged him, and he took it.
33:12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I willgo before thee.
33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children aretender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if menshould overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.
33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and Iwill lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me andthe children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.
33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk thatare with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in thesight of my lord.
33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.
33:17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and madebooths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is calledSuccoth.
33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in theland of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tentbefore the city.
33:19 And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent,at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundredpieces of money.
33:20 And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.
34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, wentout to see the daughters of the land.
34:2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of thecountry, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.
34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he lovedthe damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.
34:4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me thisdamsel to wife.
34:5 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now hissons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace untilthey were come.
34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to communewith him.
34:7 And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it:and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he hadwrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thingought not to be done.
34:8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechemlongeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.
34:9 And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us,and take our daughters unto you.
34:10 And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you;dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.
34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let mefind grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.
34:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give accordingas ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.
34:13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his fatherdeceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
34:14 And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give oursister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:
34:15 But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be,that every male of you be circumcised; 
34:16 Then will we give ourdaughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we willdwell with you, and we will become one people.
34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then willwe take our daughter, and we will be gone.
34:18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.
34:19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he haddelight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all thehouse of his father.
34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city,and communed with the men of their city, saying, 
34:21 These men arepeaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and tradetherein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let ustake their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them ourdaughters.
34:22 Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us,to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they arecircumcised.
34:23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast oftheir's be our's? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwellwith us.
34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that wentout of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all thatwent out of the gate of his city.
34:25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, thattwo of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took eachman his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.
34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of thesword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.
34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city,because they had defiled their sister.
34:28 They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and thatwhich was in the city, and that which was in the field, 
34:29 And alltheir wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took theycaptive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.
34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to makeme to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanitesand the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gatherthemselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed,I and my house.
34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there:and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thoufleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.
35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were withhim, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, andchange your garments: 
35:3 And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; andI will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of mydistress, and was with me in the way which I went.
35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in theirhand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hidthem under the oak which was by Shechem.
35:5 And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the citiesthat were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons ofJacob.
35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is,Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.
35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel:because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of hisbrother.
35:8 But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneathBethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.
35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram,and blessed him.
35:10 And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not becalled any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called hisname Israel.
35:11 And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful andmultiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, andkings shall come out of thy loins; 
35:12 And the land which I gaveAbraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after theewill I give the land.
35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.
35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him,even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and hepoured oil thereon.
35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him,Bethel.
35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little wayto come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.
35:17 And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that themidwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.
35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for shedied) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called himBenjamin.
35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which isBethlehem.
35:20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar ofRachel's grave unto this day.
35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower ofEdar.
35:22 And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reubenwent and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it.Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 
35:23 The sons of Leah; Reuben,Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, andZebulun: 
35:24 The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 
35:25 And thesons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 
35:26 And thesons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons ofJacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.
35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the cityof Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
35:28 And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.
35:29 And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto hispeople, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buriedhim.
36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.
36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughterof Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughterof Zibeon the Hivite; 
36:3 And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister ofNebajoth.
36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 
36:5 AndAholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons ofEsau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.
36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and allthe persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and allhis substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went intothe country from the face of his brother Jacob.
36:7 For their riches were more than that they might dwell together;and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them becauseof their cattle.
36:8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.
36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomitesin mount Seir: 
36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz theson of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife ofEsau.
36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, andKenaz.
36:12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare toEliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.
36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, andMizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.
36:14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah thedaughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, andJaalam, and Korah.
36:15 These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz thefirstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
36:16 Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukesthat came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.
36:17 And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, dukeZerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came ofReuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau'swife.
36:18 And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush,duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamahthe daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
36:19 These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are theirdukes.
36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land;Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 
36:21 And Dishon, and Ezer,and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seirin the land of Edom.
36:22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan'ssister was Timna.
36:23 And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, andEbal, Shepho, and Onam.
36:24 And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: thiswas that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed theasses of Zibeon his father.
36:25 And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah thedaughter of Anah.
36:26 And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, andIthran, and Cheran.
36:27 The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.
36:28 The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.
36:29 These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, dukeShobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 
36:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, dukeDishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes inthe land of Seir.
36:31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, beforethere reigned any king over the children of Israel.
36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of hiscity was Dinhabah.
36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned inhis stead.
36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in hisstead.
36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian inthe field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city wasAvith.
36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
36:37 And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned inhis stead.
36:38 And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in hisstead.
36:39 And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in hisstead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name wasMehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
36:40 And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau,according to their families, after their places, by their names; dukeTimnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 
36:41 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah,duke Pinon, 
36:42 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
36:43 DukeMagdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to theirhabitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father ofthe Edomites.
37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, inthe land of Canaan.
37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen yearsold, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with thesons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: andJoseph brought unto his father their evil report.
37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because hewas the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.
37:4 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more thanall his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably untohim.
37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and theyhated him yet the more.
37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I havedreamed: 
37:7 For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and,lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheavesstood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.
37:8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? orshalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet themore for his dreams, and for his words.
37:9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, andsaid, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun andthe moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.
37:10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and hisfather rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thouhast dreamed?  Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come tobow down ourselves to thee to the earth?  
37:11 And his brethrenenvied him; but his father observed the saying.
37:12 And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.
37:13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flockin Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him,Here am I.
37:14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well withthy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So hesent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
37:15 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering inthe field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?  
37:16 And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feedtheir flocks.
37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say,Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and foundthem in Dothan.
37:18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near untothem, they conspired against him to slay him.
37:19 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.
37:20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into somepit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shallsee what will become of his dreams.
37:21 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands;and said, Let us not kill him.
37:22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into thispit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he mightrid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.
37:23 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren,that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours thatwas on him; 
37:24 And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and thepit was empty, there was no water in it.
37:25 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyesand looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gileadwith their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carryit down to Egypt.
37:26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slayour brother, and conceal his blood?  
37:27 Come, and let us sell himto the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is ourbrother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.
37:28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew andlifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelitesfor twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.
37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not inthe pit; and he rent his clothes.
37:30 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not;and I, whither shall I go?  
37:31 And they took Joseph's coat, andkilled a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 
37:32 Andthey sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to theirfather; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son'scoat or no.
37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beasthath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.
37:34 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins,and mourned for his son many days.
37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him;but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down intothe grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.
37:36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officerof Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.
38:1 And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from hisbrethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose namewas Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.
38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.
38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his nameOnan.
38:5 And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his nameShelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.
38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.
38:7 And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD;and the LORD slew him.
38:8 And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, andmarry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.
38:9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came topass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it onthe ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.
38:10 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore heslew him also.
38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow atthy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lestperadventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went anddwelt in her father's house.
38:12 And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died;and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers toTimnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
38:13 And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth upto Timnath to shear his sheep.
38:14 And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered herwith a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which isby the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she wasnot given unto him to wife.
38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because shehad covered her face.
38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee,let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughterin law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest comein unto me?  
38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?  
38:18 And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet,and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave ither, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.
38:19 And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, andput on the garments of her widowhood.
38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite,to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.
38:21 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is theharlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was noharlot in this place.
38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and alsothe men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.
38:23 And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed:behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.
38:24 And it came to pass about three months after, that it was toldJudah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; andalso, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring herforth, and let her be burnt.
38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law,saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said,Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, andstaff.
38:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been morerighteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And heknew her again no more.
38:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold,twins were in her womb.
38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put outhis hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarletthread, saying, This came out first.
38:29 And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, hisbrother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? thisbreach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.
38:30 And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet threadupon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.
39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer ofPharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands ofthe Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.
39:2 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and hewas in the house of his master the Egyptian.
39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORDmade all that he did to prosper in his hand.
39:4 And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and hemade him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into hishand.
39:5 And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseerin his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed theEgyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD wasupon all that he had in the house, and in the field.
39:6 And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew notought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodlyperson, and well favoured.
39:7 And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wifecast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.
39:8 But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, mymaster wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committedall that he hath to my hand; 
39:9 There is none greater in this housethan I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, becausethou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sinagainst God?  
39:10 And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day byday, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.
39:11 And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into thehouse to do his business; and there was none of the men of the housethere within.
39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and heleft his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.
39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garmentin her hand, and was fled forth, 
39:14 That she called unto the men ofher house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in anHebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and Icried with a loud voice: 
39:15 And it came to pass, when he heard thatI lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, andfled, and got him out.
39:16 And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.
39:17 And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, TheHebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me tomock me: 
39:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried,that he left his garment with me, and fled out.
39:19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of hiswife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thyservant to me; that his wrath was kindled.
39:20 And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, aplace where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in theprison.
39:21 But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave himfavour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all theprisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, hewas the doer of it.
39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was underhis hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, theLORD made it to prosper.
40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of theking of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.
40:2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against thechief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.
40:3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard,into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.
40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and heserved them: and they continued a season in ward.
40:5 And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in onenight, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, thebutler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in theprison.
40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked uponthem, and, behold, they were sad.
40:7 And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward ofhis lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?  
40:8 Andthey said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is nointerpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretationsbelong to God? tell me them, I pray you.
40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him,In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 
40:10 And in the vine werethree branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shotforth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 
40:11 AndPharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed theminto Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
40:12 And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: Thethree branches are three days: 
40:13 Yet within three days shallPharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thoushalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former mannerwhen thou wast his butler.
40:14 But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shewkindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh,and bring me out of this house: 
40:15 For indeed I was stolen away outof the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing thatthey should put me into the dungeon.
40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, hesaid unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had threewhite baskets on my head: 
40:17 And in the uppermost basket there wasof all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them outof the basket upon my head.
40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretationthereof: The three baskets are three days: 
40:19 Yet within three daysshall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on atree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday,that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the headof the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.
40:21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; andhe gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 
40:22 But he hanged the chiefbaker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.
40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.
41:1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaohdreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.
41:2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favouredkine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.
41:3 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of theriver, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine uponthe brink of the river.
41:4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the sevenwell favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.
41:5 And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven earsof corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.
41:6 And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east windsprung up after them.
41:7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.
41:8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled;and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all thewise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was nonethat could interpret them unto Pharaoh.
41:9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remembermy faults this day: 
41:10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and putme in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chiefbaker: 
41:11 And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamedeach man according to the interpretation of his dream.
41:12 And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant tothe captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to usour dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.
41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me herestored unto mine office, and him he hanged.
41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought himhastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed hisraiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.
41:15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and thereis none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thoucanst understand a dream to interpret it.
41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shallgive Pharaoh an answer of peace.
41:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood uponthe bank of the river: 
41:18 And, behold, there came up out of theriver seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in ameadow: 
41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poorand very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all theland of Egypt for badness: 
41:20 And the lean and the ill favouredkine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 
41:21 And when they hadeaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; butthey were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.
41:22 And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in onestalk, full and good: 
41:23 And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin,and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 
41:24 And thethin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto themagicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.
41:25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: Godhath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.
41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears areseven years: the dream is one.
41:27 And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after themare seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east windshall be seven years of famine.
41:28 This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God isabout to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.
41:29 Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout allthe land of Egypt: 
41:30 And there shall arise after them seven yearsof famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt;and the famine shall consume the land; 
41:31 And the plenty shall notbe known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shallbe very grievous.
41:32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it isbecause the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring itto pass.
41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, andset him over the land of Egypt.
41:34 Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land,and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteousyears.
41:35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come,and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food inthe cities.
41:36 And that food shall be for store to the land against the sevenyears of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the landperish not through the famine.
41:37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyesof all his servants.
41:38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one asthis is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?  
41:39 And Pharaoh saidunto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is noneso discreet and wise as thou art: 
41:40 Thou shalt be over my house,and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in thethrone will I be greater than thou.
41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all theland of Egypt.
41:42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it uponJoseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put agold chain about his neck; 
41:43 And he made him to ride in the secondchariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and hemade him ruler over all the land of Egypt.
41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without theeshall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gavehim to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. AndJoseph went out over all the land of Egypt.
41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaohking of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, andwent throughout all the land of Egypt.
41:47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth byhandfuls.
41:48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which werein the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food ofthe field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.
41:49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much,until he left numbering; for it was without number.
41:50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of faminecame, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare untohim.
41:51 And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God,said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.
41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hathcaused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.
41:53 And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land ofEgypt, were ended.
41:54 And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Josephhad said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land ofEgypt there was bread.
41:55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried toPharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go untoJoseph; what he saith to you, do.
41:56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Josephopened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and thefamine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.
41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn;because that the famine was so sore in all lands.
42:1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said untohis sons, Why do ye look one upon another?  
42:2 And he said, Behold,I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, andbuy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.
42:3 And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.
42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.
42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came:for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
42:6 And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was thatsold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, andbowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.
42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himselfstrange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them,Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.
42:8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.
42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, andsaid unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye arecome.
42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thyservants come.
42:11 We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are nospies.
42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the landye are come.
42:13 And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of oneman in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day withour father, and one is not.
42:14 And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you,saying, Ye are spies: 
42:15 Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life ofPharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother comehither.
42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall bekept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be anytruth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.
42:17 And he put them all together into ward three days.
42:18 And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; forI fear God: 
42:19 If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be boundin the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of yourhouses: 
42:20 But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall yourwords be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.
42:21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerningour brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besoughtus, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.
42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying,Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore,behold, also his blood is required.
42:23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake untothem by an interpreter.
42:24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned tothem again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, andbound him before their eyes.
42:25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and torestore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provisionfor the way: and thus did he unto them.
42:26 And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.
42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender inthe inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.
42:28 And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, itis even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid,saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us?  
42:29 And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, andtold him all that befell unto them; saying, 
42:30 The man, who is thelord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of thecountry.
42:31 And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 
42:32 Webe twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngestis this day with our father in the land of Canaan.
42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shallI know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me,and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 
42:34 And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye areno spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you yourbrother, and ye shall traffick in the land.
42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold,every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they andtheir father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.
42:36 And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of mychildren: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjaminaway: all these things are against me.
42:37 And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if Ibring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring himto thee again.
42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brotheris dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way inthe which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow tothe grave.
43:1 And the famine was sore in the land.
43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which theyhad brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buyus a little food.
43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protestunto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be withyou.
43:4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buythee food: 
43:5 But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down:for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except yourbrother be with you.
43:6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tellthe man whether ye had yet a brother?  
43:7 And they said, The manasked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is yourfather yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him accordingto the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he wouldsay, Bring your brother down?  
43:8 And Judah said unto Israel hisfather, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we maylive, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.
43:9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if Ibring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear theblame for ever: 
43:10 For except we had lingered, surely now we hadreturned this second time.
43:11 And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, dothis; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carrydown the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, andmyrrh, nuts, and almonds: 
43:12 And take double money in your hand;and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carryit again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 
43:13 Takealso your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: 
43:14 And GodAlmighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away yourother brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I ambereaved.
43:15 And the men took that present, and they took double money intheir hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, andstood before Joseph.
43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler ofhis house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for thesemen shall dine with me at noon.
43:17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men intoJoseph's house.
43:18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph'shouse; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in oursacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasionagainst us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.
43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and theycommuned with him at the door of the house, 
43:20 And said, O sir, wecame indeed down at the first time to buy food: 
43:21 And it came topass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in fullweight: and we have brought it again in our hand.
43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food:we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.
43:23 And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God ofyour father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money.And he brought Simeon out unto them.
43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave themwater, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.
43:25 And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: forthey heard that they should eat bread there.
43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present whichwas in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to theearth.
43:27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your fatherwell, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?  
43:28 And theyanswered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive.And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.
43:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, hismother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spakeunto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.
43:30 And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon hisbrother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber,and wept there.
43:31 And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, andsaid, Set on bread.
43:32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves,and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: becausethe Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is anabomination unto the Egyptians.
43:33 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to hisbirthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the menmarvelled one at another.
43:34 And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: butBenjamin's mess was five times so much as any of their's. And theydrank, and were merry with him.
44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men'ssacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's moneyin his sack's mouth.
44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of theyoungest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word thatJoseph had spoken.
44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, theyand their asses.
44:4 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off,Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thoudost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil forgood?  
44:5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and wherebyindeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.
44:6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.
44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? Godforbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: 
44:8 Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we broughtagain unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we stealout of thy lord's house silver or gold?  
44:9 With whomsoever of thyservants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord'sbondmen.
44:10 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: hewith whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.
44:11 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground,and opened every man his sack.
44:12 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at theyoungest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, andreturned to the city.
44:14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he wasyet there: and they fell before him on the ground.
44:15 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done?wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?  
44:16 And Judahsaid, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak?  or howshall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thyservants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also withwhom the cup is found.
44:17 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man inwhose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you,get you up in peace unto your father.
44:18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thyservant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let notthine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.
44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or abrother?  
44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an oldman, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother isdead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.
44:21 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, thatI may set mine eyes upon him.
44:22 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: forif he should leave his father, his father would die.
44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brothercome down with you, ye shall see my face no more.
44:24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father,we told him the words of my lord.
44:25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.
44:26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be withus, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, exceptour youngest brother be with us.
44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wifebare me two sons: 
44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said,Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 
44:29 And if yetake this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring downmy gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the ladbe not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;
44:31 It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not withus, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairsof thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.
44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father,saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame tomy father for ever.
44:33 Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of thelad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.
44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me?lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.
45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stoodby him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And therestood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto hisbrethren.
45:2 And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaohheard.
45:3 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my fatheryet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they weretroubled at his presence.
45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom yesold into Egypt.
45:5 Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that yesold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.
45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yetthere are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing norharvest.
45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in theearth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.
45:8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hathmade me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a rulerthroughout all the land of Egypt.
45:9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saiththy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me,tarry not: 
45:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thoushalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children'schildren, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 
45:11 And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine;lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.
45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.
45:13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of allthat ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.
45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; andBenjamin wept upon his neck.
45:15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: andafter that his brethren talked with him.
45:16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying,Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and hisservants.
45:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye;lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 
45:18 Andtake your father and your households, and come unto me: and I willgive you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat ofthe land.
45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of theland of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring yourfather, and come.
45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land ofEgypt is your's.
45:21 And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons,according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision forthe way.
45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but toBenjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes ofraiment.
45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses ladenwith the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn andbread and meat for his father by the way.
45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he saidunto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.
45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaanunto Jacob their father, 
45:26 And told him, saying, Joseph is yetalive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob'sheart fainted, for he believed them not.
45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had saidunto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carryhim, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 
45:28 And Israel said,It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him beforeI die.
46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came toBeersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.
46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said,Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.
46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go downinto Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 
46:4 I willgo down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee upagain: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.
46:5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carriedJacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in thewagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they hadgotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all hisseed with him: 
46:7 His sons, and his sons' sons with him, hisdaughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he withhim into Egypt.
46:8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, which cameinto Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.
46:9 And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, andCarmi.
46:10 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.
46:11 And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
46:12 And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, andZarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons ofPharez were Hezron and Hamul.
46:13 And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, andShimron.
46:14 And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
46:15 These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob inPadanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and hisdaughters were thirty and three.
46:16 And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri,and Arodi, and Areli.
46:17 And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah,and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.
46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah hisdaughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.
46:19 The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.
46:20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh andEphraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bareunto him.
46:21 And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel,Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all thesouls were fourteen.
46:23 And the sons of Dan; Hushim.
46:24 And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, andShillem.
46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel hisdaughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.
46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out ofhis loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescoreand six; 
46:27 And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt,were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came intoEgypt, were threescore and ten.
46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his faceunto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
46:29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israelhis father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell onhis neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seenthy face, because thou art yet alive.
46:31 And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house,I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and myfather's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feedcattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and allthat they have.
46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, andshall say, What is your occupation?  
46:34 That ye shall say, Thyservants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now,both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land ofGoshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.
47:1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and mybrethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the landof Goshen.
47:2 And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presentedthem unto Pharaoh.
47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? Andthey said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and alsoour fathers.
47:4 They said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are wecome; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for thefamine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, letthy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thybrethren are come unto thee: 
47:6 The land of Egypt is before thee; inthe best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in theland of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activityamong them, then make them rulers over my cattle.
47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him beforePharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?  
47:9 And Jacobsaid unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are anhundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years ofmy life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of thelife of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.
47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.
47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them apossession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the landof Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
47:12 And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all hisfather's household, with bread, according to their families.
47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was verysore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted byreason of the famine.
47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the landof Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought:and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.
47:15 And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land ofCanaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread:for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.
47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for yourcattle, if money fail.
47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave thembread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattleof the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for alltheir cattle for that year.
47:18 When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year,and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that ourmoney is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is notought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
47:19 Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land?buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servantsunto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, thatthe land be not desolate.
47:20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for theEgyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed overthem: so the land became Pharaoh's.
47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end ofthe borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.
47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests hada portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion whichPharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.
47:23 Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you thisday and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shallsow the land.
47:24 And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall givethe fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, forseed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households,and for food for your little ones.
47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace inthe sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.
47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day,that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of thepriests only, which became not Pharaoh's.
47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen;and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multipliedexceedingly.
47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so thewhole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.
47:29 And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called hisson Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and trulywith me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt: 
47:30 But I will lie withmy fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in theirburyingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.
47:31 And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israelbowed himself upon the bed's head.
48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph,Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons,Manasseh and Ephraim.
48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh untothee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.
48:3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luzin the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 
48:4 And said unto me, Behold,I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of theea multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after theefor an everlasting possession.
48:5 And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born untothee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, aremine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.
48:6 And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine,and shall be called after the name of their brethren in theirinheritance.
48:7 And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in theland of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to comeunto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the sameis Bethlehem.
48:8 And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these?  
48:9 And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath givenme in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and Iwill bless them.
48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could notsee.And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embracedthem.
48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face:and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.
48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowedhimself with his face to the earth.
48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand towardIsrael's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel'sright hand, and brought them near unto him.
48:14 And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it uponEphraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh'shead, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.
48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathersAbraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long untothis day, 
48:16 The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless thelads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathersAbraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst ofthe earth.
48:17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon thehead of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand,to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.
48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this isthe firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.
48:19 And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it:he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but trulyhis younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shallbecome a multitude of nations.
48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israelbless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he setEphraim before Manasseh.
48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall bewith you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.
48:22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren,which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with mybow.
49:1 And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselvestogether, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the lastdays.
49:2 Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; andhearken unto Israel your father.
49:3 Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of mystrength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power: 
49:4 Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up tothy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.
49:5 Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in theirhabitations.
49:6 O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly,mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man,and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.
49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for itwas cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
49:8 Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shallbe in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow downbefore thee.
49:9 Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up:he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shallrouse him up?  
49:10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor alawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shallthe gathering of the people be.
49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto thechoice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in theblood of grapes: 
49:12 His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teethwhite with milk.
49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be foran haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.
49:14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
49:15 And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it waspleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant untotribute.
49:16 Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.
49:17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, thatbiteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.
49:18 I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.
49:19 Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at thelast.
49:20 Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royaldainties.
49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.
49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well;whose branches run over the wall: 
49:23 The archers have sorelygrieved him, and shot at him, and hated him: 
49:24 But his bow abodein strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the handsof the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone ofIsrael:) 
49:25 Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; andby the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above,blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, andof the womb: 
49:26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed abovethe blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of theeverlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on thecrown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.
49:27 Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devourthe prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.
49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it thattheir father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according tohis blessing he blessed them.
49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gatheredunto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in thefield of Ephron the Hittite, 
49:30 In the cave that is in the field ofMachpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abrahambought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of aburyingplace.
49:31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buriedIsaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.
49:32 The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein wasfrom the children of Heth.
49:33 And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, hegathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and wasgathered unto his people.
50:1 And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, andkissed him.
50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm hisfather: and the physicians embalmed Israel.
50:3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled thedays of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for himthreescore and ten days.
50:4 And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake untothe house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes,speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 
50:5 My father mademe swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me inthe land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me goup, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.
50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as hemade thee swear.
50:7 And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up allthe servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the eldersof the land of Egypt, 
50:8 And all the house of Joseph, and hisbrethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and theirflocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.
50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it wasa very great company.
50:10 And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyondJordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation:and he made a mourning for his father seven days.
50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw themourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourningto the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim,which is beyond Jordan.
50:12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 
50:13 For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him inthe cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with thefield for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, beforeMamre.
50:14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and allthat went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried hisfather.
50:15 And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, theysaid, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite usall the evil which we did unto him.
50:16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father didcommand before he died, saying, 
50:17 So shall ye say unto Joseph,Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin;for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive thetrespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph weptwhen they spake unto him.
50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; andthey said, Behold, we be thy servants.
50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place ofGod?  
50:20 But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meantit unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much peoplealive.
50:21 Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your littleones.And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.
50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: andJoseph lived an hundred and ten years.
50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: thechildren also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up uponJoseph's knees.
50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surelyvisit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he swareto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
50:25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, Godwill surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.
50:26 So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and theyembalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.