1:1 The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.
1:2 O LORD, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear! even cry outunto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save!  
1:3 Why dost thou shewme iniquity, and cause me to behold grievance? for spoiling andviolence are before me: and there are that raise up strife andcontention.
1:4 Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth:for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore wrongjudgment proceedeth.
1:5 Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marvelously:for I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, thoughit be told you.
1:6 For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation,which shall march through the breadth of the land, to possess thedwellingplaces that are not their's.
1:7 They are terrible and dreadful: their judgment and their dignityshall proceed of themselves.
1:8 Their horses also are swifter than the leopards, and are morefierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemen shall spreadthemselves, and their horsemen shall come from far; they shall fly asthe eagle that hasteth to eat.
1:9 They shall come all for violence: their faces shall sup up as theeast wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sand.
1:10 And they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be ascorn unto them: they shall deride every strong hold; for they shallheap dust, and take it.
1:11 Then shall his mind change, and he shall pass over, and offend,imputing this his power unto his god.
1:12 Art thou not from everlasting, O LORD my God, mine Holy One? weshall not die. O LORD, thou hast ordained them for judgment; and, Omighty God, thou hast established them for correction.
1:13 Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look oniniquity: wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously,and holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth the man that is morerighteous than he?  
1:14 And makest men as the fishes of the sea, asthe creeping things, that have no ruler over them?  
1:15 They take upall of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gatherthem in their drag: therefore they rejoice and are glad.
1:16 Therefore they sacrifice unto their net, and burn incense untotheir drag; because by them their portion is fat, and their meatplenteous.
1:17 Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare continuallyto slay the nations?  
2:1 I will stand upon my watch, and set me uponthe tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what Ishall answer when I am reproved.
2:2 And the LORD answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make itplain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it.
2:3 For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end itshall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because itwill surely come, it will not tarry.
2:4 Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him: but thejust shall live by his faith.
2:5 Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, he is a proud man,neither keepeth at home, who enlargeth his desire as hell, and is asdeath, and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations,and heapeth unto him all people: 
2:6 Shall not all these take up aparable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, Woeto him that increaseth that which is not his! how long? and to himthat ladeth himself with thick clay!  
2:7 Shall they not rise upsuddenly that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and thoushalt be for booties unto them?  
2:8 Because thou hast spoiled manynations, all the remnant of the people shall spoil thee; because ofmen's blood, and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of allthat dwell therein.
2:9 Woe to him that coveteth an evil covetousness to his house, thathe may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the powerof evil!  
2:10 Thou hast consulted shame to thy house by cutting offmany people, and hast sinned against thy soul.
2:11 For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of thetimber shall answer it.
2:12 Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and stablisheth acity by iniquity!  
2:13 Behold, is it not of the LORD of hosts thatthe people shall labour in the very fire, and the people shall wearythemselves for very vanity?  
2:14 For the earth shall be filled withthe knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea.
2:15 Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, that puttest thybottle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look ontheir nakedness!  
2:16 Thou art filled with shame for glory: drinkthou also, and let thy foreskin be uncovered: the cup of the LORD'sright hand shall be turned unto thee, and shameful spewing shall be onthy glory.
2:17 For the violence of Lebanon shall cover thee, and the spoil ofbeasts, which made them afraid, because of men's blood, and for theviolence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein.
2:18 What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hathgraven it; the molten image, and a teacher of lies, that the maker ofhis work trusteth therein, to make dumb idols?  
2:19 Woe unto him thatsaith to the wood, Awake; to the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach!Behold, it is laid over with gold and silver, and there is no breathat all in the midst of it.
2:20 But the LORD is in his holy temple: let all the earth keepsilence before him.
3:1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shigionoth.
3:2 O LORD, I have heard thy speech, and was afraid: O LORD, revivethy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of the years makeknown; in wrath remember mercy.
3:3 God came from Teman, and the Holy One from mount Paran. Selah. Hisglory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
3:4 And his brightness was as the light; he had horns coming out ofhis hand: and there was the hiding of his power.
3:5 Before him went the pestilence, and burning coals went forth athis feet.
3:6 He stood, and measured the earth: he beheld, and drove asunder thenations; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetualhills did bow: his ways are everlasting.
3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction: and the curtains of theland of Midian did tremble.
3:8 Was the LORD displeased against the rivers? was thine angeragainst the rivers? was thy wrath against the sea, that thou didstride upon thine horses and thy chariots of salvation?  
3:9 Thy bow wasmade quite naked, according to the oaths of the tribes, even thy word.Selah. Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers.
3:10 The mountains saw thee, and they trembled: the overflowing of thewater passed by: the deep uttered his voice, and lifted up his handson high.
3:11 The sun and moon stood still in their habitation: at the light ofthine arrows they went, and at the shining of thy glittering spear.
3:12 Thou didst march through the land in indignation, thou didstthresh the heathen in anger.
3:13 Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, even forsalvation with thine anointed; thou woundedst the head out of thehouse of the wicked, by discovering the foundation unto the neck.Selah.
3:14 Thou didst strike through with his staves the head of hisvillages: they came out as a whirlwind to scatter me: their rejoicingwas as to devour the poor secretly.
3:15 Thou didst walk through the sea with thine horses, through theheap of great waters.
3:16 When I heard, my belly trembled; my lips quivered at the voice:rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that Imight rest in the day of trouble: when he cometh up unto the people,he will invade them with his troops.
3:17 Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit bein the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shallyield no meat; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and thereshall be no herd in the stalls: 
3:18 Yet I will rejoice in the LORD, Iwill joy in the God of my salvation.
3:19 The LORD God is my strength, and he will make my feet like hinds'feet, and he will make me to walk upon mine high places. To the chiefsinger on my stringed instruments.