1:1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerningJudah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,kings of Judah.
1:2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath spoken,I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelledagainst me.
1:3 The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: butIsrael doth not know, my people doth not consider.
1:4 Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed ofevildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the LORD,they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are goneaway backward.
1:5 Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more:the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
1:6 From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundnessin it; but wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have notbeen closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment.
1:7 Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: yourland, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, asoverthrown by strangers.
1:8 And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as alodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.
1:9 Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, weshould have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.
1:10 Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto thelaw of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.
1:11 To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me?saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fatof fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or oflambs, or of he goats.
1:12 When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at yourhand, to tread my courts?  
1:13 Bring no more vain oblations; incenseis an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling ofassemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemnmeeting.
1:14 Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they area trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them.
1:15 And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes fromyou: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands arefull of blood.
1:16 Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings frombefore mine eyes; cease to do evil; 
1:17 Learn to do well; seekjudgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for thewidow.
1:18 Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though yoursins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be redlike crimson, they shall be as wool.
1:19 If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:
1:20 But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword:for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it.
1:21 How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full ofjudgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers.
1:22 Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water: 
1:23 Thyprinces are rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one lovethgifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless,neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them.
1:24 Therefore saith the LORD, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One ofIsrael, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mineenemies: 
1:25 And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge awaythy dross, and take away all thy tin: 
1:26 And I will restore thyjudges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning:afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, thefaithful city.
1:27 Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts withrighteousness.
1:28 And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shallbe together, and they that forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
1:29 For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, andye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.
1:30 For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden thathath no water.
1:31 And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark,and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.
2:1 The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah andJerusalem.
2:2 And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain ofthe LORD's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, andshall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.
2:3 And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to themountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he willteach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zionshall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
2:4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke manypeople: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and theirspears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword againstnation, neither shall they learn war any more.
2:5 O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of theLORD.
2:6 Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob,because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers likethe Philistines, and they please themselves in the children ofstrangers.
2:7 Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there anyend of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither isthere any end of their chariots: 
2:8 Their land also is full of idols;they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingershave made: 
2:9 And the mean man boweth down, and the great manhumbleth himself: therefore forgive them not.
2:10 Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of theLORD, and for the glory of his majesty.
2:11 The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness ofmen shall be bowed down, and the LORD alone shall be exalted in thatday.
2:12 For the day of the LORD of hosts shall be upon every one that isproud and lofty, and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall bebrought low: 
2:13 And upon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are highand lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan, 
2:14 And upon all thehigh mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up, 
2:15 Andupon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall, 
2:16 And upon allthe ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.
2:17 And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtinessof men shall be made low: and the LORD alone shall be exalted in thatday.
2:18 And the idols he shall utterly abolish.
2:19 And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the cavesof the earth, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty,when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
2:20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idolsof gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the molesand to the bats; 
2:21 To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into thetops of the ragged rocks, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory ofhis majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
2:22 Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for whereinis he to be accounted of ?  
3:1 For, behold, the Lord, the LORD ofhosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and thestaff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water.
3:2 The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet,and the prudent, and the ancient, 
3:3 The captain of fifty, and thehonourable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and theeloquent orator.
3:4 And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall ruleover them.
3:5 And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and everyone by his neighbour: the child shall behave himself proudly againstthe ancient, and the base against the honourable.
3:6 When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of hisfather, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let thisruin be under thy hand: 
3:7 In that day shall he swear, saying, I willnot be an healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: makeme not a ruler of the people.
3:8 For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because their tongueand their doings are against the LORD, to provoke the eyes of hisglory.
3:9 The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and theydeclare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! forthey have rewarded evil unto themselves.
3:10 Say ye to the righteous, that it shall be well with him: for theyshall eat the fruit of their doings.
3:11 Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him: for the reward ofhis hands shall be given him.
3:12 As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women ruleover them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to err, anddestroy the way of thy paths.
3:13 The LORD standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people.
3:14 The LORD will enter into judgment with the ancients of hispeople, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard;the spoil of the poor is in your houses.
3:15 What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind thefaces of the poor? saith the Lord GOD of hosts.
3:16 Moreover the LORD saith, Because the daughters of Zion arehaughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walkingand mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet: 
3:17 Therefore the LORD will smite with a scab the crown of the head of thedaughters of Zion, and the LORD will discover their secret parts.
3:18 In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinklingornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tireslike the moon, 
3:19 The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,
3:20 The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands,and the tablets, and the earrings, 
3:21 The rings, and nose jewels,
3:22 The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and thewimples, and the crisping pins, 
3:23 The glasses, and the fine linen,and the hoods, and the vails.
3:24 And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell thereshall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of wellset hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth;and burning instead of beauty.
3:25 Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war.
3:26 And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she being desolateshall sit upon the ground.
4:1 And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, Wewill eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us becalled by thy name, to take away our reproach.
4:2 In that day shall the branch of the LORD be beautiful andglorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely forthem that are escaped of Israel.
4:3 And it shall come to pass, that he that is left in Zion, and hethat remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even every one thatis written among the living in Jerusalem: 
4:4 When the Lord shall havewashed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purgedthe blood of Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit ofjudgment, and by the spirit of burning.
4:5 And the LORD will create upon every dwelling place of mount Zion,and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining ofa flaming fire by night: for upon all the glory shall be a defence.
4:6 And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time fromthe heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert from storm andfrom rain.
5:1 Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touchinghis vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill:
5:2 And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and plantedit with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, andalso made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bringforth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.
5:3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, Ipray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.
5:4 What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have notdone in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forthgrapes, brought it forth wild grapes?  
5:5 And now go to; I will tellyou what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof,and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wall thereof, and itshall be trodden down: 
5:6 And I will lay it waste: it shall not bepruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I willalso command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
5:7 For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, andthe men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, butbehold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.
5:8 Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field,till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst ofthe earth!  
5:9 In mine ears said the LORD of hosts, Of a truth manyhouses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant.
5:10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed ofan homer shall yield an ephah.
5:11 Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they mayfollow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflamethem!  
5:12 And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, andwine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the LORD,neither consider the operation of his hands.
5:13 Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they have noknowledge: and their honourable men are famished, and their multitudedried up with thirst.
5:14 Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouthwithout measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp,and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.
5:15 And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shallbe humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled: 
5:16 But theLORD of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shallbe sanctified in righteousness.
5:17 Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the wasteplaces of the fat ones shall strangers eat.
5:18 Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin asit were with a cart rope: 
5:19 That say, Let him make speed, andhasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the HolyOne of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it!  
5:20 Woe untothem that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light,and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet forbitter!  
5:21 Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, andprudent in their own sight!  
5:22 Woe unto them that are mighty todrink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink: 
5:23 Whichjustify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of therighteous from him!  
5:24 Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble,and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be asrottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they havecast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despised the word of theHoly One of Israel.
5:25 Therefore is the anger of the LORD kindled against his people,and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smittenthem: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in themidst of the streets.For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretchedout still.
5:26 And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and willhiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall comewith speed swiftly: 
5:27 None shall be weary nor stumble among them;none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loinsbe loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken: 
5:28 Whose arrowsare sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs shall becounted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind: 
5:29 Theirroaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea,they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it awaysafe, and none shall deliver it.
5:30 And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring ofthe sea: and if one look unto the land, behold darkness and sorrow,and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.
6:1 In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the LORD sitting upona throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.
6:2 Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twainhe covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and withtwain he did fly.
6:3 And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is theLORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.
6:4 And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried,and the house was filled with smoke.
6:5 Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man ofunclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips:for mine eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts.
6:6 Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in hishand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar: 
6:7 And helaid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; andthine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.
6:8 Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, andwho will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.
6:9 And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, butunderstand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.
6:10 Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, andshut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with theirears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.
6:11 Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities bewasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land beutterly desolate, 
6:12 And the LORD have removed men far away, andthere be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.
6:13 But yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall beeaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them, whenthey cast their leaves: so the holy seed shall be the substancethereof.
7:1 And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the sonof Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah theson of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to waragainst it, but could not prevail against it.
7:2 And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederatewith Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, asthe trees of the wood are moved with the wind.
7:3 Then said the LORD unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou,and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper poolin the highway of the fuller's field; 
7:4 And say unto him, Take heed,and be quiet; fear not, neither be fainthearted for the two tails ofthese smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria,and of the son of Remaliah.
7:5 Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evilcounsel against thee, saying, 
7:6 Let us go up against Judah, and vexit, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in themidst of it, even the son of Tabeal: 
7:7 Thus saith the Lord GOD, Itshall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.
7:8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus isRezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be broken,that it be not a people.
7:9 And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria isRemaliah's son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not beestablished.
7:10 Moreover the LORD spake again unto Ahaz, saying, 
7:11 Ask thee asign of the LORD thy God; ask it either in the depth, or in the heightabove.
7:12 But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the LORD.
7:13 And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is it a small thingfor you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?  
7:14 Thereforethe Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shallconceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
7:15 Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse theevil, and choose the good.
7:16 For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choosethe good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both herkings.
7:17 The LORD shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thyfather's house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraimdeparted from Judah; even the king of Assyria.
7:18 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall hissfor the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, andfor the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
7:19 And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolatevalleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and uponall bushes.
7:20 In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired,namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head,and the hair of the feet: and it shall also consume the beard.
7:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish ayoung cow, and two sheep; 
7:22 And it shall come to pass, for theabundance of milk that they shall give he shall eat butter: for butterand honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.
7:23 And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be,where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shalleven be for briers and thorns.
7:24 With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because all theland shall become briers and thorns.
7:25 And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, thereshall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns: but it shall befor the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lesser cattle.
8:1 Moreover the LORD said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and writein it with a man's pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz.
8:2 And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest,and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
8:3 And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son.Then said the LORD to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz.
8:4 For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, andmy mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall betaken away before the king of Assyria.
8:5 The LORD spake also unto me again, saying, 
8:6 Forasmuch as thispeople refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice inRezin and Remaliah's son; 
8:7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringethup upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, even the kingof Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all hischannels, and go over all his banks: 
8:8 And he shall pass throughJudah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the neck;and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thyland, O Immanuel.
8:9 Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken inpieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and yeshall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken inpieces.
8:10 Take counsel together, and it shall come to nought; speak theword, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.
8:11 For the LORD spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructedme that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, 
8:12 Sayye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, Aconfederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.
8:13 Sanctify the LORD of hosts himself; and let him be your fear, andlet him be your dread.
8:14 And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling andfor a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and fora snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
8:15 And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, andbe snared, and be taken.
8:16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.
8:17 And I will wait upon the LORD, that hideth his face from thehouse of Jacob, and I will look for him.
8:18 Behold, I and the children whom the LORD hath given me are forsigns and for wonders in Israel from the LORD of hosts, which dwellethin mount Zion.
8:19 And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that havefamiliar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: shouldnot a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead?  
8:20 Tothe law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to thisword, it is because there is no light in them.
8:21 And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: and itshall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fretthemselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.
8:22 And they shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble anddarkness, dimness of anguish; and they shall be driven to darkness.
9:1 Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation,when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and theland of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by theway of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.
9:2 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: theythat dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath thelight shined.
9:3 Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not increased the joy: theyjoy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoicewhen they divide the spoil.
9:4 For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of hisshoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian.
9:5 For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, andgarments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel offire.
9:6 For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and thegovernment shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be calledWonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, ThePrince of Peace.
9:7 Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end,upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and toestablish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will perform this.
9:8 The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath lighted upon Israel.
9:9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitant ofSamaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart, 
9:10 The bricksare fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones: the sycomores arecut down, but we will change them into cedars.
9:11 Therefore the LORD shall set up the adversaries of Rezin againsthim, and join his enemies together; 
9:12 The Syrians before, and thePhilistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. Forall this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched outstill.
9:13 For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them, neither dothey seek the LORD of hosts.
9:14 Therefore the LORD will cut off from Israel head and tail, branchand rush, in one day.
9:15 The ancient and honourable, he is the head; and the prophet thatteacheth lies, he is the tail.
9:16 For the leaders of this people cause them to err; and they thatare led of them are destroyed.
9:17 Therefore the LORD shall have no joy in their young men, neithershall have mercy on their fatherless and widows: for every one is anhypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For allthis his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched outstill.
9:18 For wickedness burneth as the fire: it shall devour the briersand thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forest, and theyshall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.
9:19 Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts is the land darkened, andthe people shall be as the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare hisbrother.
9:20 And he shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and heshall eat on the left hand, and they shall not be satisfied: theyshall eat every man the flesh of his own arm: 
9:21 Manasseh, Ephraim;and Ephraim, Manasseh: and they together shall be against Judah. Forall this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched outstill.
10:1 Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that writegrievousness which they have prescribed; 
10:2 To turn aside the needyfrom judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people,that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!
10:3 And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in thedesolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help?and where will ye leave your glory?  
10:4 Without me they shall bowdown under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain. For allthis his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched outstill.
10:5 O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand ismine indignation.
10:6 I will send him against an hypocritical nation, and against thepeople of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and totake the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
10:7 Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; butit is in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few.
10:8 For he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings?  
10:9 Is notCalno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is not Samaria asDamascus?  
10:10 As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, andwhose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria; 
10:11 Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do toJerusalem and her idols?  
10:12 Wherefore it shall come to pass, thatwhen the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount Zion and onJerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king ofAssyria, and the glory of his high looks.
10:13 For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and bymy wisdom; for I am prudent: and I have removed the bounds of thepeople, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down theinhabitants like a valiant man: 
10:14 And my hand hath found as a nestthe riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that are left,have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing,or opened the mouth, or peeped.
10:15 Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? orshall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? as if therod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if thestaff should lift up itself, as if it were no wood.
10:16 Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fatones leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like theburning of a fire.
10:17 And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy Onefor a flame: and it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briers inone day; 
10:18 And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of hisfruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when astandard-bearer fainteth.
10:19 And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that achild may write them.
10:20 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant ofIsrael, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no moreagain stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the LORD, theHoly One of Israel, in truth.
10:21 The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto themighty God.
10:22 For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet aremnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflowwith righteousness.
10:23 For the Lord GOD of hosts shall make a consumption, evendetermined, in the midst of all the land.
10:24 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, O my people thatdwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall smite theewith a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the mannerof Egypt.
10:25 For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease,and mine anger in their destruction.
10:26 And the LORD of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him accordingto the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb: and as his rod wasupon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.
10:27 And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall betaken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, andthe yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.
10:28 He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hathlaid up his carriages: 
10:29 They are gone over the passage: they havetaken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibeah of Saul isfled.
10:30 Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it to be heardunto Laish, O poor Anathoth.
10:31 Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselvesto flee.
10:32 As yet shall he remain at Nob that day: he shall shake his handagainst the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
10:33 Behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, shall lop the bough withterror: and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and thehaughty shall be humbled.
10:34 And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, andLebanon shall fall by a mighty one.
11:1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and aBranch shall grow out of his roots: 
11:2 And the spirit of the LORDshall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, thespirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fearof the LORD; 
11:3 And shall make him of quick understanding in thefear of the LORD: and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes,neither reprove after the hearing of his ears: 
11:4 But withrighteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for themeek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth: with the rod of hismouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.
11:5 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, andfaithfulness the girdle of his reins.
11:6 The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shalllie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatlingtogether; and a little child shall lead them.
11:7 And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall liedown together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
11:8 And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and theweaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice' den.
11:9 They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for theearth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD, as the waters coverthe sea.
11:10 And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shallstand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek: andhis rest shall be glorious.
11:11 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall sethis hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people,which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros,and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, andfrom the islands of the sea.
11:12 And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shallassemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed ofJudah from the four corners of the earth.
11:13 The envy also of Ephraim shall depart, and the adversaries ofJudah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shallnot vex Ephraim.
11:14 But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines towardthe west; they shall spoil them of the east together: they shall laytheir hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obeythem.
11:15 And the LORD shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptiansea; and with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river,and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over dryshod.
11:16 And there shall be an highway for the remnant of his people,which shall be left, from Assyria; like as it was to Israel in the daythat he came up out of the land of Egypt.
12:1 And in that day thou shalt say, O LORD, I will praise thee:though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thoucomfortedst me.
12:2 Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: forthe LORD JEHOVAH is my strength and my song; he also is become mysalvation.
12:3 Therefore with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells ofsalvation.
12:4 And in that day shall ye say, Praise the LORD, call upon hisname, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his nameis exalted.
12:5 Sing unto the LORD; for he hath done excellent things: this isknown in all the earth.
12:6 Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion: for great is the HolyOne of Israel in the midst of thee.
13:1 The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.
13:2 Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice untothem, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.
13:3 I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mightyones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.
13:4 The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a greatpeople; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gatheredtogether: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.
13:5 They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even theLORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.
13:6 Howl ye; for the day of the LORD is at hand; it shall come as adestruction from the Almighty.
13:7 Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man's heart shallmelt: 
13:8 And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take holdof them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shallbe amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.
13:9 Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath andfierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy thesinners thereof out of it.
13:10 For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall notgive their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, andthe moon shall not cause her light to shine.
13:11 And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked fortheir iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease,and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.
13:12 I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man thanthe golden wedge of Ophir.
13:13 Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall removeout of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day ofhis fierce anger.
13:14 And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no mantaketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee everyone into his own land.
13:15 Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every onethat is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.
13:16 Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes;their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.
13:17 Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall notregard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.
13:18 Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and theyshall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall notspare children.
13:19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees'excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.
13:20 It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in fromgeneration to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.
13:21 But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their housesshall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, andsatyrs shall dance there.
13:22 And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolatehouses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near tocome, and her days shall not be prolonged.
14:1 For the LORD will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet chooseIsrael, and set them in their own land: and the strangers shall bejoined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.
14:2 And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place:and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD forservants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whosecaptives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.
14:3 And it shall come to pass in the day that the LORD shall givethee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hardbondage wherein thou wast made to serve, 
14:4 That thou shalt take upthis proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath theoppressor ceased! the golden city ceased!  
14:5 The LORD hath brokenthe staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.
14:6 He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he thatruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.
14:7 The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth intosinging.
14:8 Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon,saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.
14:9 Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming:it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of theearth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of thenations.
14:10 All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also becomeweak as we? art thou become like unto us?  
14:11 Thy pomp is broughtdown to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spreadunder thee, and the worms cover thee.
14:12 How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!
14:13 For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, Iwill exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon themount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: 
14:14 I willascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.
14:15 Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.
14:16 They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and considerthee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that didshake kingdoms; 
14:17 That made the world as a wilderness, anddestroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of hisprisoners?  
14:18 All the kings of the nations, even all of them, liein glory, every one in his own house.
14:19 But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,and as the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with asword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcase troddenunder feet.
14:20 Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hastdestroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shallnever be renowned.
14:21 Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of theirfathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill theface of the world with cities.
14:22 For I will rise up against them, saith the LORD of hosts, andcut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saiththe LORD.
14:23 I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools ofwater: and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith theLORD of hosts.
14:24 The LORD of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought,so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:
14:25 That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountainstread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, andhis burden depart from off their shoulders.
14:26 This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: andthis is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.
14:27 For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it?and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?  
14:28 Inthe year that king Ahaz died was this burden.
14:29 Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him thatsmote thee is broken: for out of the serpent's root shall come forth acockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.
14:30 And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shalllie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shallslay thy remnant.
14:31 Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved:for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alonein his appointed times.
14:32 What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? Thatthe LORD hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust init.
15:1 The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laidwaste, and brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab islaid waste, and brought to silence; 
15:2 He is gone up to Bajith, andto Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, andover Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard cutoff.
15:3 In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: onthe tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl,weeping abundantly.
15:4 And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heardeven unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out;his life shall be grievous unto him.
15:5 My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shall flee untoZoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhithwith weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim theyshall raise up a cry of destruction.
15:6 For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay iswithered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.
15:7 Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which theyhave laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows.
15:8 For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howlingthereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim.
15:9 For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bringmore upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon theremnant of the land.
16:1 Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to thewilderness, unto the mount of the daughter of Zion.
16:2 For it shall be, that, as a wandering bird cast out of the nest,so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.
16:3 Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night inthe midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him thatwandereth.
16:4 Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to themfrom the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, thespoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.
16:5 And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall situpon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seekingjudgment, and hasting righteousness.
16:6 We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud: even of hishaughtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: but his lies shall not beso.
16:7 Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for thefoundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn; surely they are stricken.
16:8 For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah: thelords of the heathen have broken down the principal plants thereof,they are come even unto Jazer, they wandered through the wilderness:her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the sea.
16:9 Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine ofSibmah: I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: forthe shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy harvest is fallen.
16:10 And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field;and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither shall there beshouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in their presses; Ihave made their vintage shouting to cease.
16:11 Wherefore my bowels shall sound like an harp for Moab, and mineinward parts for Kirharesh.
16:12 And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary onthe high place, that he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but heshall not prevail.
16:13 This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning Moab sincethat time.
16:14 But now the LORD hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as theyears of an hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, withall that great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small andfeeble.
17:1 The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from beinga city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.
17:2 The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, whichshall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
17:3 The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom fromDamascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of thechildren of Israel, saith the LORD of hosts.
17:4 And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacobshall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax lean.
17:5 And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn, andreapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be as he that gatherethears in the valley of Rephaim.
17:6 Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of anolive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough,four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the LORDGod of Israel.
17:7 At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shallhave respect to the Holy One of Israel.
17:8 And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands,neither shall respect that which his fingers have made, either thegroves, or the images.
17:9 In that day shall his strong cities be as a forsaken bough, andan uppermost branch, which they left because of the children ofIsrael: and there shall be desolation.
17:10 Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hastnot been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thouplant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips: 
17:11 Inthe day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shaltthou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in theday of grief and of desperate sorrow.
17:12 Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like thenoise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that make a rushinglike the rushing of mighty waters!  
17:13 The nations shall rush likethe rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shallflee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains beforethe wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.
17:14 And behold at eveningtide trouble; and before the morning he isnot.This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them thatrob us.
18:1 Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the riversof Ethiopia: 
18:2 That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vesselsof bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to anation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their beginninghitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivershave spoiled!  
18:3 All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers onthe earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; andwhen he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye.
18:4 For so the LORD said unto me, I will take my rest, and I willconsider in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like acloud of dew in the heat of harvest.
18:5 For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfect, and the sourgrape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigs withpruning hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.
18:6 They shall be left together unto the fowls of the mountains, andto the beasts of the earth: and the fowls shall summer upon them, andall the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.
18:7 In that time shall the present be brought unto the LORD of hostsof a people scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible fromtheir beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot,whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the name of theLORD of hosts, the mount Zion.
19:1 The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud,and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved athis presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.
19:2 And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and theyshall fight every one against his brother, and every one against hisneighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.
19:3 And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and Iwill destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols,and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and tothe wizards.
19:4 And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord;and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD ofhosts.
19:5 And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall bewasted and dried up.
19:6 And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks ofdefence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shallwither.
19:7 The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, andevery thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and beno more.
19:8 The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle intothe brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the watersshall languish.
19:9 Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weavenetworks, shall be confounded.
19:10 And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that makesluices and ponds for fish.
19:11 Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wisecounsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, Iam the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?  
19:12 Where arethey? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let themknow what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.
19:13 The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph aredeceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay ofthe tribes thereof.
19:14 The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof:and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunkenman staggereth in his vomit.
19:15 Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head ortail, branch or rush, may do.
19:16 In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall beafraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD ofhosts, which he shaketh over it.
19:17 And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every onethat maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of thecounsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it.
19:18 In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak thelanguage of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall becalled, The city of destruction.
19:19 In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst ofthe land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD.
19:20 And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD ofhosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD becauseof the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one,and he shall deliver them.
19:21 And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shallknow the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea,they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.
19:22 And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: andthey shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them,and shall heal them.
19:23 In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria,and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria,and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.
19:24 In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and withAssyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land: 
19:25 Whom the LORDof hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyriathe work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.
20:1 In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargon the kingof Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it; 
20:2 Atthe same time spake the LORD by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go andloose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thyfoot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
20:3 And the LORD said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked nakedand barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and uponEthiopia; 
20:4 So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptiansprisoners, and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked andbarefoot, even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.
20:5 And they shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia theirexpectation, and of Egypt their glory.
20:6 And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold,such is our expectation, whither we flee for help to be delivered fromthe king of Assyria: and how shall we escape?  
21:1 The burden of thedesert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so itcometh from the desert, from a terrible land.
21:2 A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealerdealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam:besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease.
21:3 Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs have taken holdupon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed down atthe hearing of it; I was dismayed at the seeing of it.
21:4 My heart panted, fearfulness affrighted me: the night of mypleasure hath he turned into fear unto me.
21:5 Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, yeprinces, and anoint the shield.
21:6 For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let himdeclare what he seeth.
21:7 And he saw a chariot with a couple of horsemen, a chariot ofasses, and a chariot of camels; and he hearkened diligently with muchheed: 
21:8 And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continually upon thewatchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights: 
21:9 And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, with a couple of horsemen.And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all thegraven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground.
21:10 O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I haveheard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared untoyou.
21:11 The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman,what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?  
21:12 The watchmansaid, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire,enquire ye: return, come.
21:13 The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge,O ye travelling companies of Dedanim.
21:14 The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought water to him thatwas thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that fled.
21:15 For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and fromthe bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.
21:16 For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Within a year, according tothe years of an hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail: 
21:17 And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of thechildren of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the LORD God of Israelhath spoken it.
22:1 The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, thatthou art wholly gone up to the housetops?  
22:2 Thou that art full ofstirs, a tumultuous city, joyous city: thy slain men are not slainwith the sword, nor dead in battle.
22:3 All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archers:all that are found in thee are bound together, which have fled fromfar.
22:4 Therefore said I, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly, labournot to comfort me, because of the spoiling of the daughter of mypeople.
22:5 For it is a day of trouble, and of treading down, and ofperplexity by the Lord GOD of hosts in the valley of vision, breakingdown the walls, and of crying to the mountains.
22:6 And Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, andKir uncovered the shield.
22:7 And it shall come to pass, that thy choicest valleys shall befull of chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves in array atthe gate.
22:8 And he discovered the covering of Judah, and thou didst look inthat day to the armour of the house of the forest.
22:9 Ye have seen also the breaches of the city of David, that theyare many: and ye gathered together the waters of the lower pool.
22:10 And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the houseshave ye broken down to fortify the wall.
22:11 Ye made also a ditch between the two walls for the water of theold pool: but ye have not looked unto the maker thereof, neither hadrespect unto him that fashioned it long ago.
22:12 And in that day did the Lord GOD of hosts call to weeping, andto mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth: 
22:13 Andbehold joy and gladness, slaying oxen, and killing sheep, eatingflesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink; for to morrow we shalldie.
22:14 And it was revealed in mine ears by the LORD of hosts, Surelythis iniquity shall not be purged from you till ye die, saith the LordGOD of hosts.
22:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, Go, get thee unto thistreasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say, 
22:16 What hast thou here? and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewedthee out a sepulchre here, as he that heweth him out a sepulchre onhigh, and that graveth an habitation for himself in a rock?  
22:17 Behold, the LORD will carry thee away with a mighty captivity, andwill surely cover thee.
22:18 He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into alarge country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thyglory shall be the shame of thy lord's house.
22:19 And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shallhe pull thee down.
22:20 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call myservant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah: 
22:21 And I will clothe him withthy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thygovernment into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitantsof Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.
22:22 And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder;so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and noneshall open.
22:23 And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall befor a glorious throne to his father's house.
22:24 And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father'shouse, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity,from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.
22:25 In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall the nail that isfastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall; andthe burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the LORD hath spokenit.
23:1 The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laidwaste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land ofChittim it is revealed to them.
23:2 Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants ofZidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.
23:3 And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river,is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations.
23:4 Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even thestrength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children,neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.
23:5 As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely painedat the report of Tyre.
23:6 Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.
23:7 Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? herown feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn.
23:8 Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city,whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable ofthe earth?  
23:9 The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain thepride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable ofthe earth.
23:10 Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: thereis no more strength.
23:11 He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms:the LORD hath given a commandment against the merchant city, todestroy the strong holds thereof.
23:12 And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressedvirgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there alsoshalt thou have no rest.
23:13 Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till theAssyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set upthe towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he broughtit to ruin.
23:14 Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.
23:15 And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall beforgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after theend of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot.
23:16 Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast beenforgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest beremembered.
23:17 And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, thatthe LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shallcommit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face ofthe earth.
23:18 And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD:it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall befor them that dwell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and fordurable clothing.
24:1 Behold, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, andturneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.
24:2 And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as withthe servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with hermistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender,so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver ofusury to him.
24:3 The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for theLORD hath spoken this word.
24:4 The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth andfadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish.
24:5 The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; becausethey have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken theeverlasting covenant.
24:6 Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwelltherein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth areburned, and few men left.
24:7 The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearteddo sigh.
24:8 The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoiceendeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth.
24:9 They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall bebitter to them that drink it.
24:10 The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up,that no man may come in.
24:11 There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened,the mirth of the land is gone.
24:12 In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten withdestruction.
24:13 When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people,there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaninggrapes when the vintage is done.
24:14 They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majestyof the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea.
24:15 Wherefore glorify ye the LORD in the fires, even the name of theLORD God of Israel in the isles of the sea.
24:16 From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, evenglory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe untome! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, thetreacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously.
24:17 Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant ofthe earth.
24:18 And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise ofthe fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of themidst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from onhigh are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake.
24:19 The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved,the earth is moved exceedingly.
24:20 The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall beremoved like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavyupon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again.
24:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shallpunish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings ofthe earth upon the earth.
24:22 And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gatheredin the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many daysshall they be visited.
24:23 Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when theLORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and beforehis ancients gloriously.
25:1 O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thyname; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old arefaithfulness and truth.
25:2 For thou hast made of a city an heap; of a defenced city a ruin:a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built.
25:3 Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of theterrible nations shall fear thee.
25:4 For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to theneedy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from theheat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against thewall.
25:5 Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in adry place; even the heat with the shadow of a cloud: the branch of theterrible ones shall be brought low.
25:6 And in this mountain shall the LORD of hosts make unto all peoplea feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat thingsfull of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.
25:7 And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the coveringcast over all people, and the vail that is spread over all nations.
25:8 He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord GOD will wipeaway tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall hetake away from off all the earth: for the LORD hath spoken it.
25:9 And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we havewaited for him, and he will save us: this is the LORD; we have waitedfor him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.
25:10 For in this mountain shall the hand of the LORD rest, and Moabshall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for thedunghill.
25:11 And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as hethat swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim: and he shall bringdown their pride together with the spoils of their hands.
25:12 And the fortress of the high fort of thy walls shall he bringdown, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.
26:1 In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We havea strong city; salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.
26:2 Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth thetruth may enter in.
26:3 Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed onthee: because he trusteth in thee.
26:4 Trust ye in the LORD for ever: for in the LORD JEHOVAH iseverlasting strength: 
26:5 For he bringeth down them that dwell onhigh; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low, even to theground; he bringeth it even to the dust.
26:6 The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and thesteps of the needy.
26:7 The way of the just is uprightness: thou, most upright, dostweigh the path of the just.
26:8 Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have we waited forthee; the desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance ofthee.
26:9 With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with myspirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are inthe earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.
26:10 Let favour be shewed to the wicked, yet will he not learnrighteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, andwill not behold the majesty of the LORD.
26:11 LORD, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: but theyshall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people; yea, the fireof thine enemies shall devour them.
26:12 LORD, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wroughtall our works in us.
26:13 O LORD our God, other lords beside thee have had dominion overus: but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.
26:14 They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, theyshall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, andmade all their memory to perish.
26:15 Thou hast increased the nation, O LORD, thou hast increased thenation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed it far unto all theends of the earth.
26:16 LORD, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out aprayer when thy chastening was upon them.
26:17 Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of herdelivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been inthy sight, O LORD.
26:18 We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as itwere brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in theearth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
26:19 Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall theyarise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as thedew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.
26:20 Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thydoors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, untilthe indignation be overpast.
26:21 For, behold, the LORD cometh out of his place to punish theinhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shalldisclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.
27:1 In that day the LORD with his sore and great and strong swordshall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan thatcrooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.
27:2 In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyard of red wine.
27:3 I the LORD do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest anyhurt it, I will keep it night and day.
27:4 Fury is not in me: who would set the briers and thorns against mein battle? I would go through them, I would burn them together.
27:5 Or let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace withme; and he shall make peace with me.
27:6 He shall cause them that come of Jacob to take root: Israel shallblossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.
27:7 Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? or is heslain according to the slaughter of them that are slain by him?  
27:8 In measure, when it shooteth forth, thou wilt debate with it: hestayeth his rough wind in the day of the east wind.
27:9 By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and thisis all the fruit to take away his sin; when he maketh all the stonesof the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, the groves andimages shall not stand up.
27:10 Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and the habitationforsaken, and left like a wilderness: there shall the calf feed, andthere shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.
27:11 When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off:the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of nounderstanding: therefore he that made them will not have mercy onthem, and he that formed them will shew them no favour.
27:12 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall beatoff from the channel of the river unto the stream of Egypt, and yeshall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel.
27:13 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the great trumpetshall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to perish in theland of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shallworship the LORD in the holy mount at Jerusalem.
28:1 Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whoseglorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head of the fatvalleys of them that are overcome with wine!  
28:2 Behold, the Lordhath a mighty and strong one, which as a tempest of hail and adestroying storm, as a flood of mighty waters overflowing, shall castdown to the earth with the hand.
28:3 The crown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be troddenunder feet: 
28:4 And the glorious beauty, which is on the head of thefat valley, shall be a fading flower, and as the hasty fruit beforethe summer; which when he that looketh upon it seeth, while it is yetin his hand he eateth it up.
28:5 In that day shall the LORD of hosts be for a crown of glory, andfor a diadem of beauty, unto the residue of his people, 
28:6 And for aspirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and for strengthto them that turn the battle to the gate.
28:7 But they also have erred through wine, and through strong drinkare out of the way; the priest and the prophet have erred throughstrong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the waythrough strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.
28:8 For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there isno place clean.
28:9 Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make tounderstand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawnfrom the breasts.
28:10 For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; lineupon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little: 
28:11 For with stammering lips and another tongue will he speak to thispeople.
28:12 To whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause theweary to rest; and this is the refreshing: yet they would not hear.
28:13 But the word of the LORD was unto them precept upon precept,precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little,and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and bebroken, and snared, and taken.
28:14 Wherefore hear the word of the LORD, ye scornful men, that rulethis people which is in Jerusalem.
28:15 Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, andwith hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall passthrough, it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our refuge,and under falsehood have we hid ourselves: 
28:16 Therefore thus saiththe Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a triedstone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believethshall not make haste.
28:17 Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to theplummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and thewaters shall overflow the hiding place.
28:18 And your covenant with death shall be disannulled, and youragreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourgeshall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.
28:19 From the time that it goeth forth it shall take you: for morningby morning shall it pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be avexation only to understand the report.
28:20 For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself onit: and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it.
28:21 For the LORD shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall bewroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, his strangework; and bring to pass his act, his strange act.
28:22 Now therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong:for I have heard from the Lord GOD of hosts a consumption, evendetermined upon the whole earth.
28:23 Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.
28:24 Doth the plowman plow all day to sow? doth he open and break theclods of his ground?  
28:25 When he hath made plain the face thereof,doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and castin the principal wheat and the appointed barley and the rie in theirplace?  
28:26 For his God doth instruct him to discretion, and dothteach him.
28:27 For the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument,neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitchesare beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.
28:28 Bread corn is bruised; because he will not ever be threshing it,nor break it with the wheel of his cart, nor bruise it with hishorsemen.
28:29 This also cometh forth from the LORD of hosts, which iswonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.
29:1 Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye yearto year; let them kill sacrifices.
29:2 Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness andsorrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel.
29:3 And I will camp against thee round about, and will lay siegeagainst thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee.
29:4 And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of theground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voiceshall be, as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground,and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.
29:5 Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall be like small dust,and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff that passethaway: yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly.
29:6 Thou shalt be visited of the LORD of hosts with thunder, and withearthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame ofdevouring fire.
29:7 And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel,even all that fight against her and her munition, and that distressher, shall be as a dream of a night vision.
29:8 It shall even be as when an hungry man dreameth, and, behold, heeateth; but he awaketh, and his soul is empty: or as when a thirstyman dreameth, and, behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and, behold,he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the multitude of allthe nations be, that fight against mount Zion.
29:9 Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they aredrunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink.
29:10 For the LORD hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep,and hath closed your eyes: the prophets and your rulers, the seershath he covered.
29:11 And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a bookthat is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Readthis, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed: 
29:12 Andthe book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, Ipray thee: and he saith, I am not learned.
29:13 Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near mewith their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removedtheir heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by theprecept of men: 
29:14 Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do amarvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and awonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and theunderstanding of their prudent men shall be hid.
29:15 Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from theLORD, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? andwho knoweth us?  
29:16 Surely your turning of things upside down shallbe esteemed as the potter's clay: for shall the work say of him thatmade it, He made me not? or shall the thing framed say of him thatframed it, He had no understanding?  
29:17 Is it not yet a very littlewhile, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and thefruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?  
29:18 And in that dayshall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blindshall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness.
29:19 The meek also shall increase their joy in the LORD, and the pooramong men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.
29:20 For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner isconsumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off: 
29:21 That makea man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reprovethin the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought.
29:22 Therefore thus saith the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerningthe house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall hisface now wax pale.
29:23 But when he seeth his children, the work of mine hands, in themidst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy Oneof Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.
29:24 They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, andthey that murmured shall learn doctrine.
30:1 Woe to the rebellious children, saith the LORD, that takecounsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of myspirit, that they may add sin to sin: 
30:2 That walk to go down intoEgypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in thestrength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!  
30:3 Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trustin the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
30:4 For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes.
30:5 They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, norbe an help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.
30:6 The burden of the beasts of the south: into the land of troubleand anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper andfiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the shouldersof young asses, and their treasures upon the bunches of camels, to apeople that shall not profit them.
30:7 For the Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose:therefore have I cried concerning this, Their strength is to sitstill.
30:8 Now go, write it before them in a table, and note it in a book,that it may be for the time to come for ever and ever: 
30:9 That thisis a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hearthe law of the LORD: 
30:10 Which say to the seers, See not; and to theprophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooththings, prophesy deceits: 
30:11 Get you out of the way, turn aside outof the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.
30:12 Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despisethis word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon:
30:13 Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready tofall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly atan instant.
30:14 And he shall break it as the breaking of the potters' vesselthat is broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall notbe found in the bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth,or to take water withal out of the pit.
30:15 For thus saith the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel; Inreturning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidenceshall be your strength: and ye would not.
30:16 But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shallye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they thatpursue you be swift.
30:17 One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke offive shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of amountain, and as an ensign on an hill.
30:18 And therefore will the LORD wait, that he may be gracious untoyou, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy uponyou: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blessed are all they that waitfor him.
30:19 For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: thou shalt weepno more: he will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry;when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.
30:20 And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity, and thewater of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be removed into acorner any more, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers: 
30:21 Andthine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way,walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to theleft.
30:22 Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images ofsilver, and the ornament of thy molten images of gold: thou shalt castthem away as a menstruous cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get theehence.
30:23 Then shall he give the rain of thy seed, that thou shalt sow theground withal; and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall befat and plenteous: in that day shall thy cattle feed in largepastures.
30:24 The oxen likewise and the young asses that ear the ground shalleat clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shovel and withthe fan.
30:25 And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every highhill, rivers and streams of waters in the day of the great slaughter,when the towers fall.
30:26 Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun,and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of sevendays, in the day that the LORD bindeth up the breach of his people,and healeth the stroke of their wound.
30:27 Behold, the name of the LORD cometh from far, burning with hisanger, and the burden thereof is heavy: his lips are full ofindignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire: 
30:28 And his breath,as an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, tosift the nations with the sieve of vanity: and there shall be a bridlein the jaws of the people, causing them to err.
30:29 Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity iskept; and gladness of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe to comeinto the mountain of the LORD, to the mighty One of Israel.
30:30 And the LORD shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, andshall shew the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation of hisanger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, andtempest, and hailstones.
30:31 For through the voice of the LORD shall the Assyrian be beatendown, which smote with a rod.
30:32 And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass, whichthe LORD shall lay upon him, it shall be with tabrets and harps: andin battles of shaking will he fight with it.
30:33 For Tophet is ordained of old; yea, for the king it is prepared;he hath made it deep and large: the pile thereof is fire and muchwood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindleit.
31:1 Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help; and stay on horses,and trust in chariots, because they are many; and in horsemen, becausethey are very strong; but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel,neither seek the LORD!  
31:2 Yet he also is wise, and will bring evil,and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house ofthe evildoers, and against the help of them that work iniquity.
31:3 Now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses flesh,and not spirit. When the LORD shall stretch out his hand, both he thathelpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and theyall shall fail together.
31:4 For thus hath the LORD spoken unto me, Like as the lion and theyoung lion roaring on his prey, when a multitude of shepherds iscalled forth against him, he will not be afraid of their voice, norabase himself for the noise of them: so shall the LORD of hosts comedown to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.
31:5 As birds flying, so will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem;defending also he will deliver it; and passing over he will preserveit.
31:6 Turn ye unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeplyrevolted.
31:7 For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver,and his idols of gold, which your own hands have made unto you for asin.
31:8 Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man;and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shall fleefrom the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.
31:9 And he shall pass over to his strong hold for fear, and hisprinces shall be afraid of the ensign, saith the LORD, whose fire isin Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.
32:1 Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shallrule in judgment.
32:2 And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covertfrom the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow ofa great rock in a weary land.
32:3 And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears ofthem that hear shall hearken.
32:4 The heart also of the rash shall understand knowledge, and thetongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly.
32:5 The vile person shall be no more called liberal, nor the churlsaid to be bountiful.
32:6 For the vile person will speak villany, and his heart will workiniquity, to practise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the LORD,to make empty the soul of the hungry, and he will cause the drink ofthe thirsty to fail.
32:7 The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth wickeddevices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when the needyspeaketh right.
32:8 But the liberal deviseth liberal things; and by liberal thingsshall he stand.
32:9 Rise up, ye women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye carelessdaughters; give ear unto my speech.
32:10 Many days and years shall ye be troubled, ye careless women: forthe vintage shall fail, the gathering shall not come.
32:11 Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye carelessones: strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon yourloins.
32:12 They shall lament for the teats, for the pleasant fields, forthe fruitful vine.
32:13 Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea,upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city: 
32:14 Because thepalaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left;the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses,a pasture of flocks; 
32:15 Until the spirit be poured upon us from onhigh, and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful fieldbe counted for a forest.
32:16 Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousnessremain in the fruitful field.
32:17 And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect ofrighteousness quietness and assurance for ever.
32:18 And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in suredwellings, and in quiet resting places; 
32:19 When it shall hail,coming down on the forest; and the city shall be low in a low place.
32:20 Blessed are ye that sow beside all waters, that send forththither the feet of the ox and the ass.
33:1 Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and dealesttreacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thoushalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; and when thou shalt makean end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.
33:2 O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thoutheir arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.
33:3 At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up ofthyself the nations were scattered.
33:4 And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of thecaterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run uponthem.
33:5 The LORD is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zionwith judgment and righteousness.
33:6 And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, andstrength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure.
33:7 Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors ofpeace shall weep bitterly.
33:8 The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath brokenthe covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.
33:9 The earth mourneth and languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewndown: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake offtheir fruits.
33:10 Now will I rise, saith the LORD; now will I be exalted; now willI lift up myself.
33:11 Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: yourbreath, as fire, shall devour you.
33:12 And the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cutup shall they be burned in the fire.
33:13 Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that arenear, acknowledge my might.
33:14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised thehypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? whoamong us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?  
33:15 He that walkethrighteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain ofoppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, thatstoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes fromseeing evil; 
33:16 He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shallbe the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shallbe sure.
33:17 Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall beholdthe land that is very far off.
33:18 Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? where isthe receiver? where is he that counted the towers?  
33:19 Thou shaltnot see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canstperceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand.
33:20 Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shallsee Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be takendown; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neithershall any of the cords thereof be broken.
33:21 But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a place of broadrivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neithershall gallant ship pass thereby.
33:22 For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD isour king; he will save us.
33:23 Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen theirmast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a greatspoil divided; the lame take the prey.
33:24 And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people thatdwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.
34:1 Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let theearth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things thatcome forth of it.
34:2 For the indignation of the LORD is upon all nations, and his furyupon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hathdelivered them to the slaughter.
34:3 Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come upout of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with theirblood.
34:4 And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavensshall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall falldown, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig fromthe fig tree.
34:5 For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall comedown upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment.
34:6 The sword of the LORD is filled with blood, it is made fat withfatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of thekidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a greatslaughter in the land of Idumea.
34:7 And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks withthe bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dustmade fat with fatness.
34:8 For it is the day of the LORD's vengeance, and the year ofrecompences for the controversy of Zion.
34:9 And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dustthereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burningpitch.
34:10 It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shallgo up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; noneshall pass through it for ever and ever.
34:11 But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl alsoand the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it theline of confusion, and the stones of emptiness.
34:12 They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but noneshall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing.
34:13 And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles inthe fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, anda court for owls.
34:14 The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wildbeasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; thescreech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place ofrest.
34:15 There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, andgather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered,every one with her mate.
34:16 Seek ye out of the book of the LORD, and read: no one of theseshall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded,and his spirit it hath gathered them.
34:17 And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided itunto them by line: they shall possess it for ever, from generation togeneration shall they dwell therein.
35:1 The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; andthe desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.
35:2 It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy andsinging: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellencyof Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the LORD, and theexcellency of our God.
35:3 Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees.
35:4 Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not:behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence;he will come and save you.
35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of thedeaf shall be unstopped.
35:6 Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of thedumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streamsin the desert.
35:7 And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty landsprings of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shallbe grass with reeds and rushes.
35:8 And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be calledThe way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shallbe for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein.
35:9 No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go upthereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walkthere: 
35:10 And the ransomed of the LORD shall return, and come toZion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shallobtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
36:1 Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, thatSennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced cities ofJudah, and took them.
36:2 And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalemunto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit ofthe upper pool in the highway of the fuller's field.
36:3 Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah's son, which was overthe house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, Asaph's son, the recorder.
36:4 And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saiththe great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this whereinthou trustest?  
36:5 I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words)I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, thatthou rebellest against me?  
36:6 Lo, thou trustest in the staff ofthis broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into hishand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust inhim.
36:7 But if thou say to me, We trust in the LORD our God: is it nothe, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, andsaid to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?
36:8 Now therefore give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king ofAssyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able onthy part to set riders upon them.
36:9 How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the leastof my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots andfor horsemen?  
36:10 And am I now come up without the LORD againstthis land to destroy it? the LORD said unto me, Go up against thisland, and destroy it.
36:11 Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, Ipray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understandit: and speak not to us in the Jews' language, in the ears of thepeople that are on the wall.
36:12 But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and tothee to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men that situpon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their ownpiss with you?  
36:13 Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loudvoice in the Jews' language, and said, Hear ye the words of the greatking, the king of Assyria.
36:14 Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shallnot be able to deliver you.
36:15 Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, TheLORD will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into thehand of the king of Assyria.
36:16 Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria,Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me: and eat yeevery one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink yeevery one the waters of his own cistern; 
36:17 Until I come and takeyou away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a landof bread and vineyards.
36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, the LORD will deliverus.Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the handof the king of Assyria?  
36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath andArphad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they deliveredSamaria out of my hand?  
36:20 Who are they among all the gods ofthese lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that theLORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?  
36:21 But they heldtheir peace, and answered him not a word: for the king's commandmentwas, saying, Answer him not.
36:22 Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that was over thehousehold, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, therecorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the wordsof Rabshakeh.
37:1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he renthis clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into thehouse of the LORD.
37:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna thescribe, and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth, untoIsaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
37:3 And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day oftrouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are come tothe birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.
37:4 It may be the LORD thy God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whomthe king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God,and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard:wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.
37:5 So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
37:6 And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say unto your master,Thus saith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard,wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.
37:7 Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour,and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the swordin his own land.
37:8 So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warringagainst Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
37:9 And he heard say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is comeforth to make war with thee. And when he heard it, he sent messengersto Hezekiah, saying, 
37:10 Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king ofJudah, saying, Let not thy God, in whom thou trustest, deceive thee,saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king ofAssyria.
37:11 Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done toall lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be delivered?
37:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathershave destroyed, as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children ofEden which were in Telassar?  
37:13 Where is the king of Hamath, andthe king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, andIvah?  
37:14 And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of themessengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up unto the house of theLORD, and spread it before the LORD.
37:15 And Hezekiah prayed unto the LORD, saying, 
37:16 O LORD ofhosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims, thou artthe God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth: thou hastmade heaven and earth.
37:17 Incline thine ear, O LORD, and hear; open thine eyes, O LORD,and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent toreproach the living God.
37:18 Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all thenations, and their countries, 
37:19 And have cast their gods into thefire: for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood andstone: therefore they have destroyed them.
37:20 Now therefore, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that allthe kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the LORD, even thouonly.
37:21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thussaith the LORD God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me againstSennacherib king of Assyria: 
37:22 This is the word which the LORDhath spoken concerning him; The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hathdespised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalemhath shaken her head at thee.
37:23 Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hastthou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even againstthe Holy One of Israel.
37:24 By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, Bythe multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of themountains, to the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tallcedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enterinto the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel.
37:25 I have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feethave I dried up all the rivers of the besieged places.
37:26 Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of ancienttimes, that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thoushouldest be to lay waste defenced cities into ruinous heaps.
37:27 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they weredismayed and confounded: they were as the grass of the field, and asthe green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blastedbefore it be grown up.
37:28 But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, andthy rage against me.
37:29 Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up intomine ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle inthy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.
37:30 And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year suchas groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth of thesame: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, andeat the fruit thereof.
37:31 And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shallagain take root downward, and bear fruit upward: 
37:32 For out ofJerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out of mountZion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.
37:33 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, Heshall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor comebefore it with shields, nor cast a bank against it.
37:34 By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shallnot come into this city, saith the LORD.
37:35 For I will defend this city to save it for mine own sake, andfor my servant David's sake.
37:36 Then the angel of the LORD went forth, and smote in the camp ofthe Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand: and when theyarose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.
37:37 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned,and dwelt at Nineveh.
37:38 And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house ofNisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him withthe sword; and they escaped into the land of Armenia: and Esarhaddonhis son reigned in his stead.
38:1 In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah theprophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saiththe LORD, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.
38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed untothe LORD, 
38:3 And said, Remember now, O LORD, I beseech thee, how Ihave walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and havedone that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.
38:4 Then came the word of the LORD to Isaiah, saying, 
38:5 Go, andsay to Hezekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, Ihave heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add untothy days fifteen years.
38:6 And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the kingof Assyria: and I will defend this city.
38:7 And this shall be a sign unto thee from the LORD, that the LORDwill do this thing that he hath spoken; 
38:8 Behold, I will bringagain the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in the sun dial ofAhaz, ten degrees backward. So the sun returned ten degrees, by whichdegrees it was gone down.
38:9 The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, andwas recovered of his sickness: 
38:10 I said in the cutting off of mydays, I shall go to the gates of the grave: I am deprived of theresidue of my years.
38:11 I said, I shall not see the LORD, even the LORD, in the land ofthe living: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of theworld.
38:12 Mine age is departed, and is removed from me as a shepherd'stent: I have cut off like a weaver my life: he will cut me off withpining sickness: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.
38:13 I reckoned till morning, that, as a lion, so will he break allmy bones: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.
38:14 Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourn as adove: mine eyes fail with looking upward: O LORD, I am oppressed;undertake for me.
38:15 What shall I say? he hath both spoken unto me, and himself hathdone it: I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.
38:16 O LORD, by these things men live, and in all these things is thelife of my spirit: so wilt thou recover me, and make me to live.
38:17 Behold, for peace I had great bitterness: but thou hast in loveto my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption: for thou hast castall my sins behind thy back.
38:18 For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee:they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.
38:19 The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day:the father to the children shall make known thy truth.
38:20 The LORD was ready to save me: therefore we will sing my songsto the stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house ofthe LORD.
38:21 For Isaiah had said, Let them take a lump of figs, and lay itfor a plaister upon the boil, and he shall recover.
38:22 Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up tothe house of the LORD?  
39:1 At that time Merodachbaladan, the son ofBaladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: forhe had heard that he had been sick, and was recovered.
39:2 And Hezekiah was glad of them, and shewed them the house of hisprecious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and theprecious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that wasfound in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all hisdominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.
39:3 Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said untohim, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? AndHezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even fromBabylon.
39:4 Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiahanswered, All that is in mine house have they seen: there is nothingamong my treasures that I have not shewed them.
39:5 Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:
39:6 Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and thatwhich thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall becarried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.
39:7 And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shaltbeget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palaceof the king of Babylon.
39:8 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD whichthou hast spoken. He said moreover, For there shall be peace and truthin my days.
40:1 Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.
40:2 Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that herwarfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hathreceived of the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
40:3 The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye theway of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.
40:4 Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shallbe made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the roughplaces plain: 
40:5 And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, andall flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the LORD hath spokenit.
40:6 The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh isgrass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field:
40:7 The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of theLORD bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.
40:8 The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our Godshall stand for ever.
40:9 O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the highmountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voicewith strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities ofJudah, Behold your God!  
40:10 Behold, the Lord GOD will come withstrong hand, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward iswith him, and his work before him.
40:11 He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather thelambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently leadthose that are with young.
40:12 Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, andmeted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earthin a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in abalance?  
40:13 Who hath directed the Spirit of the LORD, or being hiscounsellor hath taught him?  
40:14 With whom took he counsel, and whoinstructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught himknowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?  
40:15 Behold,the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the smalldust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very littlething.
40:16 And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereofsufficient for a burnt offering.
40:17 All nations before him are as nothing; and they are counted tohim less than nothing, and vanity.
40:18 To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compareunto him?  
40:19 The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldsmithspreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains.
40:20 He that is so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth atree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a cunning workman toprepare a graven image, that shall not be moved.
40:21 Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not been told youfrom the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of theearth?  
40:22 It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, andthe inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out theheavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in:
40:23 That bringeth the princes to nothing; he maketh the judges ofthe earth as vanity.
40:24 Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown:yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall alsoblow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall takethem away as stubble.
40:25 To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith theHoly One.
40:26 Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created thesethings, that bringeth out their host by number: he calleth them all bynames by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong in power;not one faileth.
40:27 Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hidfrom the LORD, and my judgment is passed over from my God?  
40:28 Hastthou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, theLORD, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither isweary? there is no searching of his understanding.
40:29 He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might heincreaseth strength.
40:30 Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young menshall utterly fall: 
40:31 But they that wait upon the LORD shall renewtheir strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shallrun, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.
41:1 Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew theirstrength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come neartogether to judgment.
41:2 Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to hisfoot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over kings? hegave them as the dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his bow.
41:3 He pursued them, and passed safely; even by the way that he hadnot gone with his feet.
41:4 Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from thebeginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.
41:5 The isles saw it, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid,drew near, and came.
41:6 They helped every one his neighbour; and every one said to hisbrother, Be of good courage.
41:7 So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he that smoothethwith the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It is ready for thesodering: and he fastened it with nails, that it should not be moved.
41:8 But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, theseed of Abraham my friend.
41:9 Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and calledthee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art myservant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.
41:10 Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thyGod: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will upholdthee with the right hand of my righteousness.
41:11 Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall beashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strivewith thee shall perish.
41:12 Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them thatcontended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing,and as a thing of nought.
41:13 For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying untothee, Fear not; I will help thee.
41:14 Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will helpthee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.
41:15 Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument havingteeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shaltmake the hills as chaff.
41:16 Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and thewhirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, andshalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.
41:17 When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and theirtongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them, I the God ofIsrael will not forsake them.
41:18 I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst ofthe valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dryland springs of water.
41:19 I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, andthe myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree,and the pine, and the box tree together: 
41:20 That they may see, andknow, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORDhath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.
41:21 Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strongreasons, saith the King of Jacob.
41:22 Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: letthem shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them,and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.
41:23 Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may knowthat ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed,and behold it together.
41:24 Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: anabomination is he that chooseth you.
41:25 I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from therising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come uponprinces as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay.
41:26 Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? andbeforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none thatsheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none thatheareth your words.
41:27 The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I willgive to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.
41:28 For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and therewas no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.
41:29 Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: theirmolten images are wind and confusion.
42:1 Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my souldelighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forthjudgment to the Gentiles.
42:2 He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard inthe street.
42:3 A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall henot quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.
42:4 He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgmentin the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.
42:5 Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, andstretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that whichcometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, andspirit to them that walk therein: 
42:6 I the LORD have called thee inrighteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and givethee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; 
42:7 To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison,and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house.
42:8 I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give toanother, neither my praise to graven images.
42:9 Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do Ideclare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.
42:10 Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the end ofthe earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; theisles, and the inhabitants thereof.
42:11 Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice,the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rocksing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.
42:12 Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in theislands.
42:13 The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir upjealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevailagainst his enemies.
42:14 I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, andrefrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I willdestroy and devour at once.
42:15 I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all theirherbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up thepools.
42:16 And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I willlead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darknesslight before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I dounto them, and not forsake them.
42:17 They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, thattrust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are ourgods.
42:18 Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.
42:19 Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that Isent?  who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the LORD'sservant?  
42:20 Seeing many things, but thou observest not; openingthe ears, but he heareth not.
42:21 The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness' sake; he willmagnify the law, and make it honourable.
42:22 But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of themsnared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for aprey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.
42:23 Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hearfor the time to come?  
42:24 Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel tothe robbers? did not the LORD, he against whom we have sinned? forthey would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto hislaw.
42:25 Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and thestrength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet heknew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.
43:1 But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and hethat formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I havecalled thee by thy name; thou art mine.
43:2 When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; andthrough the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkestthrough the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flamekindle upon thee.
43:3 For I am the LORD thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: Igave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.
43:4 Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable,and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and peoplefor thy life.
43:5 Fear not: for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from theeast, and gather thee from the west; 
43:6 I will say to the north,Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, andmy daughters from the ends of the earth; 
43:7 Even every one that iscalled by my name: for I have created him for my glory, I have formedhim; yea, I have made him.
43:8 Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf thathave ears.
43:9 Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people beassembled: who among them can declare this, and shew us former things?let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified: orlet them hear, and say, It is truth.
43:10 Ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I havechosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he:before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.
43:11 I, even I, am the LORD; and beside me there is no saviour.
43:12 I have declared, and have saved, and I have shewed, when therewas no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith theLORD, that I am God.
43:13 Yea, before the day was I am he; and there is none that candeliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it?  
43:14 Thussaith the LORD, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake Ihave sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, and theChaldeans, whose cry is in the ships.
43:15 I am the LORD, your Holy One, the creator of Israel, your King.
43:16 Thus saith the LORD, which maketh a way in the sea, and a pathin the mighty waters; 
43:17 Which bringeth forth the chariot andhorse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, theyshall not rise: they are extinct, they are quenched as tow.
43:18 Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the thingsof old.
43:19 Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shallye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and riversin the desert.
43:20 The beast of the field shall honour me, the dragons and theowls: because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in thedesert, to give drink to my people, my chosen.
43:21 This people have I formed for myself; they shall shew forth mypraise.
43:22 But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast beenweary of me, O Israel.
43:23 Thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burntofferings; neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I havenot caused thee to serve with an offering, nor wearied thee withincense.
43:24 Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thoufilled me with the fat of thy sacrifices: but thou hast made me toserve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities.
43:25 I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mineown sake, and will not remember thy sins.
43:26 Put me in remembrance: let us plead together: declare thou, thatthou mayest be justified.
43:27 Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers have transgressedagainst me.
43:28 Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and havegiven Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reproaches.
44:1 Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen:
44:2 Thus saith the LORD that made thee, and formed thee from thewomb, which will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou,Jesurun, whom I have chosen.
44:3 For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods uponthe dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessingupon thine offspring: 
44:4 And they shall spring up as among thegrass, as willows by the water courses.
44:5 One shall say, I am the LORD's; and another shall call himself bythe name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto theLORD, and surname himself by the name of Israel.
44:6 Thus saith the LORD the King of Israel, and his redeemer the LORDof hosts; I am the first, and I am the last; and beside me there is noGod.
44:7 And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it inorder for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the thingsthat are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them.
44:8 Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from thattime, and have declared it? ye are even my witnesses. Is there a Godbeside me? yea, there is no God; I know not any.
44:9 They that make a graven image are all of them vanity; and theirdelectable things shall not profit; and they are their own witnesses;they see not, nor know; that they may be ashamed.
44:10 Who hath formed a god, or molten a graven image that isprofitable for nothing?  
44:11 Behold, all his fellows shall beashamed: and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gatheredtogether, let them stand up; yet they shall fear, and they shall beashamed together.
44:12 The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, andfashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of hisarms: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth: he drinketh nowater, and is faint.
44:13 The carpenter stretcheth out his rule; he marketh it out with aline; he fitteth it with planes, and he marketh it out with thecompass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to thebeauty of a man; that it may remain in the house.
44:14 He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak,which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest: heplanteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it.
44:15 Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take thereof,and warm himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread; yea, hemaketh a god, and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, andfalleth down thereto.
44:16 He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eatethflesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth himself,and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire: 
44:17 And the residuethereof he maketh a god, even his graven image: he falleth down untoit, and worshippeth it, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me;for thou art my god.
44:18 They have not known nor understood: for he hath shut their eyes,that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand.
44:19 And none considereth in his heart, neither is there knowledgenor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea,also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh,and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination?shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?  
44:20 He feedeth on ashes:a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver hissoul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?  
44:21 Rememberthese, O Jacob and Israel; for thou art my servant: I have formedthee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten ofme.
44:22 I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and,as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.
44:23 Sing, O ye heavens; for the LORD hath done it: shout, ye lowerparts of the earth: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest,and every tree therein: for the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, andglorified himself in Israel.
44:24 Thus saith the LORD, thy redeemer, and he that formed thee fromthe womb, I am the LORD that maketh all things; that stretcheth forththe heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself; 
44:25 That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad;that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish;
44:26 That confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth thecounsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt beinhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built, and I willraise up the decayed places thereof: 
44:27 That saith to the deep, Bedry, and I will dry up thy rivers: 
44:28 That saith of Cyrus, He is myshepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem,Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.
45:1 Thus saith the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand Ihave holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loinsof kings, to open before him the two leaved gates; and the gates shallnot be shut; 
45:2 I will go before thee, and make the crooked placesstraight: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in sunderthe bars of iron: 
45:3 And I will give thee the treasures of darkness,and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, theLORD, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel.
45:4 For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have evencalled thee by thy name: I have surnamed thee, though thou hast notknown me.
45:5 I am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside me:I girded thee, though thou hast not known me: 
45:6 That they may knowfrom the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is nonebeside me. I am the LORD, and there is none else.
45:7 I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and createevil: I the LORD do all these things.
45:8 Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour downrighteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation,and let righteousness spring up together; I the LORD have created it.
45:9 Woe unto him that striveth with his Maker! Let the potsherdstrive with the potsherds of the earth. Shall the clay say to him thatfashioneth it, What makest thou? or thy work, He hath no hands?  
45:10 Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What begettest thou? or tothe woman, What hast thou brought forth?  
45:11 Thus saith the LORD,the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker, Ask me of things to comeconcerning my sons, and concerning the work of my hands command ye me.
45:12 I have made the earth, and created man upon it: I, even myhands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have Icommanded.
45:13 I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct all hisways: he shall build my city, and he shall let go my captives, not forprice nor reward, saith the LORD of hosts.
45:14 Thus saith the LORD, The labour of Egypt, and merchandise ofEthiopia and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over untothee, and they shall be thine: they shall come after thee; in chainsthey shall come over, and they shall fall down unto thee, they shallmake supplication unto thee, saying, Surely God is in thee; and thereis none else, there is no God.
45:15 Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, theSaviour.
45:16 They shall be ashamed, and also confounded, all of them: theyshall go to confusion together that are makers of idols.
45:17 But Israel shall be saved in the LORD with an everlastingsalvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded world without end.
45:18 For thus saith the LORD that created the heavens; God himselfthat formed the earth and made it; he hath established it, he createdit not in vain, he formed it to be inhabited: I am the LORD; and thereis none else.
45:19 I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth: Isaid not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain: I the LORD speakrighteousness, I declare things that are right.
45:20 Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, ye that areescaped of the nations: they have no knowledge that set up the wood oftheir graven image, and pray unto a god that cannot save.
45:21 Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take counseltogether: who hath declared this from ancient time? who hath told itfrom that time?  have not I the LORD? and there is no God else besideme; a just God and a Saviour; there is none beside me.
45:22 Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth: for Iam God, and there is none else.
45:23 I have sworn by myself, the word is gone out of my mouth inrighteousness, and shall not return, That unto me every knee shallbow, every tongue shall swear.
45:24 Surely, shall one say, in the LORD have I righteousness andstrength: even to him shall men come; and all that are incensedagainst him shall be ashamed.
45:25 In the LORD shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shallglory.
46:1 Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, their idols were upon the beasts,and upon the cattle: your carriages were heavy loaden; they are aburden to the weary beast.
46:2 They stoop, they bow down together; they could not deliver theburden, but themselves are gone into captivity.
46:3 Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of thehouse of Israel, which are borne by me from the belly, which arecarried from the womb: 
46:4 And even to your old age I am he; and evento hoar hairs will I carry you: I have made, and I will bear; even Iwill carry, and will deliver you.
46:5 To whom will ye liken me, and make me equal, and compare me, thatwe may be like?  
46:6 They lavish gold out of the bag, and weighsilver in the balance, and hire a goldsmith; and he maketh it a god:they fall down, yea, they worship.
46:7 They bear him upon the shoulder, they carry him, and set him inhis place, and he standeth; from his place shall he not remove: yea,one shall cry unto him, yet can he not answer, nor save him out of histrouble.
46:8 Remember this, and shew yourselves men: bring it again to mind, Oye transgressors.
46:9 Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there isnone else; I am God, and there is none like me, 
46:10 Declaring theend from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are notyet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all mypleasure: 
46:11 Calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man thatexecuteth my counsel from a far country: yea, I have spoken it, I willalso bring it to pass; I have purposed it, I will also do it.
46:12 Hearken unto me, ye stouthearted, that are far fromrighteousness: 
46:13 I bring near my righteousness; it shall not befar off, and my salvation shall not tarry: and I will place salvationin Zion for Israel my glory.
47:1 Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, siton the ground: there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: forthou shalt no more be called tender and delicate.
47:2 Take the millstones, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, make barethe leg, uncover the thigh, pass over the rivers.
47:3 Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: Iwill take vengeance, and I will not meet thee as a man.
47:4 As for our redeemer, the LORD of hosts is his name, the Holy Oneof Israel.
47:5 Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of theChaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms.
47:6 I was wroth with my people, I have polluted mine inheritance, andgiven them into thine hand: thou didst shew them no mercy; upon theancient hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke.
47:7 And thou saidst, I shall be a lady for ever: so that thou didstnot lay these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latterend of it.
47:8 Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, thatdwellest carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I am, and none elsebeside me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the lossof children: 
47:9 But these two things shall come to thee in a momentin one day, the loss of children, and widowhood: they shall come uponthee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, and forthe great abundance of thine enchantments.
47:10 For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, Noneseeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; andthou hast said in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me.
47:11 Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know fromwhence it riseth: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not beable to put it off: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly,which thou shalt not know.
47:12 Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thysorceries, wherein thou hast laboured from thy youth; if so be thoushalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.
47:13 Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels. Let now theastrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up,and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee.
47:14 Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; theyshall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: there shallnot be a coal to warm at, nor fire to sit before it.
47:15 Thus shall they be unto thee with whom thou hast laboured, eventhy merchants, from thy youth: they shall wander every one to hisquarter; none shall save thee.
48:1 Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name ofIsrael, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear bythe name of the LORD, and make mention of the God of Israel, but notin truth, nor in righteousness.
48:2 For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselvesupon the God of Israel; The LORD of hosts is his name.
48:3 I have declared the former things from the beginning; and theywent forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did them suddenly,and they came to pass.
48:4 Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an ironsinew, and thy brow brass; 
48:5 I have even from the beginningdeclared it to thee; before it came to pass I shewed it thee: lestthou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, andmy molten image, hath commanded them.
48:6 Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare it? I haveshewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thoudidst not know them.
48:7 They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before theday when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, Iknew them.
48:8 Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from thattime that thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest dealvery treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.
48:9 For my name's sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praisewill I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.
48:10 Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosenthee in the furnace of affliction.
48:11 For mine own sake, even for mine own sake, will I do it: for howshould my name be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another.
48:12 Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I am he; I amthe first, I also am the last.
48:13 Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and myright hand hath spanned the heavens: when I call unto them, they standup together.
48:14 All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hathdeclared these things? The LORD hath loved him: he will do hispleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.
48:15 I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have broughthim, and he shall make his way prosperous.
48:16 Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secretfrom the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now theLord GOD, and his Spirit, hath sent me.
48:17 Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I amthe LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee bythe way that thou shouldest go.
48:18 O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thypeace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea:
48:19 Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thybowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut offnor destroyed from before me.
48:20 Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voiceof singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of theearth; say ye, The LORD hath redeemed his servant Jacob.
48:21 And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts: hecaused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rockalso, and the waters gushed out.
48:22 There is no peace, saith the LORD, unto the wicked.
49:1 Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; TheLORD hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hathhe made mention of my name.
49:2 And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow ofhis hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiverhath he hid me; 
49:3 And said unto me, Thou art my servant, O Israel,in whom I will be glorified.
49:4 Then I said, I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strengthfor nought, and in vain: yet surely my judgment is with the LORD, andmy work with my God.
49:5 And now, saith the LORD that formed me from the womb to be hisservant, to bring Jacob again to him, Though Israel be not gathered,yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the LORD, and my God shall bemy strength.
49:6 And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be myservant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preservedof Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, thatthou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth.
49:7 Thus saith the LORD, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, tohim whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to a servantof rulers, Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship,because of the LORD that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, andhe shall choose thee.
49:8 Thus saith the LORD, In an acceptable time have I heard thee, andin a day of salvation have I helped thee: and I will preserve thee,and give thee for a covenant of the people, to establish the earth, tocause to inherit the desolate heritages; 
49:9 That thou mayest say tothe prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shewyourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall bein all high places.
49:10 They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sunsmite them: for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even bythe springs of water shall he guide them.
49:11 And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall beexalted.
49:12 Behold, these shall come from far: and, lo, these from the northand from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.
49:13 Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth intosinging, O mountains: for the LORD hath comforted his people, and willhave mercy upon his afflicted.
49:14 But Zion said, The LORD hath forsaken me, and my Lord hathforgotten me.
49:15 Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not havecompassion on the son of her womb? yea, they may forget, yet will Inot forget thee.
49:16 Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy wallsare continually before me.
49:17 Thy children shall make haste; thy destroyers and they that madethee waste shall go forth of thee.
49:18 Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these gatherthemselves together, and come to thee. As I live, saith the LORD, thoushalt surely clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and bindthem on thee, as a bride doeth.
49:19 For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thydestruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of theinhabitants, and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.
49:20 The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast lost theother, shall say again in thine ears, The place is too strait for me:give place to me that I may dwell.
49:21 Then shalt thou say in thine heart, Who hath begotten me these,seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a captive, andremoving to and fro? and who hath brought up these? Behold, I was leftalone; these, where had they been?  
49:22 Thus saith the Lord GOD,Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up mystandard to the people: and they shall bring thy sons in their arms,and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.
49:23 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thynursing mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their face towardthe earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know thatI am the LORD: for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.
49:24 Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captivedelivered?  
49:25 But thus saith the LORD, Even the captives of themighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall bedelivered: for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, andI will save thy children.
49:26 And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; andthey shall be drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine: andall flesh shall know that I the LORD am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer,the mighty One of Jacob.
50:1 Thus saith the LORD, Where is the bill of your mother'sdivorcement, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors is it towhom I have sold you?  Behold, for your iniquities have ye soldyourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.
50:2 Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, wasthere none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannotredeem? or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry upthe sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stinketh, becausethere is no water, and dieth for thirst.
50:3 I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth theircovering.
50:4 The Lord GOD hath given me the tongue of the learned, that Ishould know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: hewakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as thelearned.
50:5 The Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious,neither turned away back.
50:6 I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that pluckedoff the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting.
50:7 For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not beconfounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know thatI shall not be ashamed.
50:8 He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let usstand together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.
50:9 Behold, the Lord GOD will help me; who is he that shall condemnme?  lo, they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat themup.
50:10 Who is among you that feareth the LORD, that obeyeth the voiceof his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? let himtrust in the name of the LORD, and stay upon his God.
50:11 Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves aboutwith sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks that yehave kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down insorrow.
51:1 Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seekthe LORD: look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole ofthe pit whence ye are digged.
51:2 Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you: forI called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him.
51:3 For the LORD shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her wasteplaces; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert likethe garden of the LORD; joy and gladness shall be found therein,thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.
51:4 Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation:for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to restfor a light of the people.
51:5 My righteousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and minearms shall judge the people; the isles shall wait upon me, and on minearm shall they trust.
51:6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earthbeneath: for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earthshall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die inlike manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my righteousnessshall not be abolished.
51:7 Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whoseheart is my law; fear ye not the reproach of men, neither be ye afraidof their revilings.
51:8 For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shalleat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for ever, and mysalvation from generation to generation.
51:9 Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the LORD; awake, as inthe ancient days, in the generations of old. Art thou not it that hathcut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?  
51:10 Art thou not it which hathdried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath made the depthsof the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?  
51:11 Therefore theredeemed of the LORD shall return, and come with singing unto Zion;and everlasting joy shall be upon their head: they shall obtaingladness and joy; and sorrow and mourning shall flee away.
51:12 I, even I, am he that comforteth you: who art thou, that thoushouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of manwhich shall be made as grass; 
51:13 And forgettest the LORD thy maker,that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of theearth; and hast feared continually every day because of the fury ofthe oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? and where is the furyof the oppressor?  
51:14 The captive exile hasteneth that he may beloosed, and that he should not die in the pit, nor that his breadshould fail.
51:15 But I am the LORD thy God, that divided the sea, whose wavesroared: The LORD of hosts is his name.
51:16 And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee inthe shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay thefoundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my people.
51:17 Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at thehand of the LORD the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs ofthe cup of trembling, and wrung them out.
51:18 There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she hathbrought forth; neither is there any that taketh her by the hand of allthe sons that she hath brought up.
51:19 These two things are come unto thee; who shall be sorry forthee?  desolation, and destruction, and the famine, and the sword: bywhom shall I comfort thee?  
51:20 Thy sons have fainted, they lie atthe head of all the streets, as a wild bull in a net: they are full ofthe fury of the LORD, the rebuke of thy God.
51:21 Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, but notwith wine: 
51:22 Thus saith thy Lord the LORD, and thy God thatpleadeth the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken out of thinehand the cup of trembling, even the dregs of the cup of my fury; thoushalt no more drink it again: 
51:23 But I will put it into the hand ofthem that afflict thee; which have said to thy soul, Bow down, that wemay go over: and thou hast laid thy body as the ground, and as thestreet, to them that went over.
52:1 Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautifulgarments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall nomore come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.
52:2 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem:loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
52:3 For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; andye shall be redeemed without money.
52:4 For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime intoEgypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.
52:5 Now therefore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my peopleis taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl,saith the LORD; and my name continually every day is blasphemed.
52:6 Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall knowin that day that I am he that doth speak: behold, it is I.
52:7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him thatbringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth goodtidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, ThyGod reigneth!  
52:8 Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with thevoice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, whenthe LORD shall bring again Zion.
52:9 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places ofJerusalem: for the LORD hath comforted his people, he hath redeemedJerusalem.
52:10 The LORD hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all thenations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of ourGod.
52:11 Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no uncleanthing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear thevessels of the LORD.
52:12 For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for theLORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.
52:13 Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted andextolled, and be very high.
52:14 As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred morethan any man, and his form more than the sons of men: 
52:15 So shallhe sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him:for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that whichthey had not heard shall they consider.
53:1 Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the LORDrevealed?  
53:2 For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, andas a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; andwhen we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.
53:3 He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, andacquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; hewas despised, and we esteemed him not.
53:4 Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet wedid esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.
53:5 But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for ouriniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with hisstripes we are healed.
53:6 All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one tohis own way; and the LORD hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.
53:7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not hismouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep beforeher shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.
53:8 He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declarehis generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: forthe transgression of my people was he stricken.
53:9 And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in hisdeath; because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in hismouth.
53:10 Yet it pleased the LORD to bruise him; he hath put him to grief:when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see hisseed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the LORD shallprosper in his hand.
53:11 He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied:by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shallbear their iniquities.
53:12 Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and heshall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out hissoul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and hebare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.
54:1 Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth intosinging, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: formore are the children of the desolate than the children of the marriedwife, saith the LORD.
54:2 Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth thecurtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, andstrengthen thy stakes; 
54:3 For thou shalt break forth on the righthand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, andmake the desolate cities to be inhabited.
54:4 Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thouconfounded; for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forgetthe shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thywidowhood any more.
54:5 For thy Maker is thine husband; the LORD of hosts is his name;and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; The God of the whole earthshall he be called.
54:6 For the LORD hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved inspirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.
54:7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercieswill I gather thee.
54:8 In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but witheverlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the LORD thyRedeemer.
54:9 For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I have swornthat the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have Isworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee.
54:10 For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but mykindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of mypeace be removed, saith the LORD that hath mercy on thee.
54:11 O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted,behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thyfoundations with sapphires.
54:12 And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates ofcarbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.
54:13 And all thy children shall be taught of the LORD; and greatshall be the peace of thy children.
54:14 In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be farfrom oppression; for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for itshall not come near thee.
54:15 Behold, they shall surely gather together, but not by me:whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake.
54:16 Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in thefire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I havecreated the waster to destroy.
54:17 No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and everytongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and theirrighteousness is of me, saith the LORD.
55:1 Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he thathath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milkwithout money and without price.
55:2 Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and yourlabour for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, andeat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself infatness.
55:3 Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shalllive; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the suremercies of David.
55:4 Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leaderand commander to the people.
55:5 Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, andnations that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the LORD thyGod, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath glorified thee.
55:6 Seek ye the LORD while he may be found, call ye upon him while heis near: 
55:7 Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous manhis thoughts: and let him return unto the LORD, and he will have mercyupon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
55:8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways myways, saith the LORD.
55:9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my wayshigher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
55:10 For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, andreturneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bringforth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to theeater: 
55:11 So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: itshall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which Iplease, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.
55:12 For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: themountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, andall the trees of the field shall clap their hands.
55:13 Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead ofthe brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the LORDfor a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.
56:1 Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for mysalvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.
56:2 Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man thatlayeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, andkeepeth his hand from doing any evil.
56:3 Neither let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself tothe LORD, speak, saying, The LORD hath utterly separated me from hispeople: neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree.
56:4 For thus saith the LORD unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths,and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant;
56:5 Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls aplace and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will givethem an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.
56:6 Also the sons of the stranger, that join themselves to the LORD,to serve him, and to love the name of the LORD, to be his servants,every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and taketh holdof my covenant; 
56:7 Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, andmake them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings andtheir sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine houseshall be called an house of prayer for all people.
56:8 The Lord GOD, which gathereth the outcasts of Israel saith, Yetwill I gather others to him, beside those that are gathered unto him.
56:9 All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts inthe forest.
56:10 His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumbdogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.
56:11 Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and theyare shepherds that cannot understand: they all look to their own way,every one for his gain, from his quarter.
56:12 Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselveswith strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, and much moreabundant.
57:1 The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart: andmerciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous istaken away from the evil to come.
57:2 He shall enter into peace: they shall rest in their beds, eachone walking in his uprightness.
57:3 But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of theadulterer and the whore.
57:4 Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a widemouth, and draw out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression,a seed of falsehood.
57:5 Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slayingthe children in the valleys under the clifts of the rocks?  
57:6 Amongthe smooth stones of the stream is thy portion; they, they are thylot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, thou hast offereda meat offering. Should I receive comfort in these?  
57:7 Upon a loftyand high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither wentest thou upto offer sacrifice.
57:8 Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thyremembrance: for thou hast discovered thyself to another than me, andart gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant withthem; thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it.
57:9 And thou wentest to the king with ointment, and didst increasethy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers far off, and didst debasethyself even unto hell.
57:10 Thou art wearied in the greatness of thy way; yet saidst thounot, There is no hope: thou hast found the life of thine hand;therefore thou wast not grieved.
57:11 And of whom hast thou been afraid or feared, that thou hastlied, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not Iheld my peace even of old, and thou fearest me not?  
57:12 I willdeclare thy righteousness, and thy works; for they shall not profitthee.
57:13 When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee; but the windshall carry them all away; vanity shall take them: but he that puttethhis trust in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holymountain; 
57:14 And shall say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare theway, take up the stumblingblock out of the way of my people.
57:15 For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity,whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him alsothat is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of thehumble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.
57:16 For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth:for the spirit should fail before me, and the souls which I have made.
57:17 For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him:I hid me, and was wroth, and he went on frowardly in the way of hisheart.
57:18 I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also,and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners.
57:19 I create the fruit of the lips; Peace, peace to him that is faroff, and to him that is near, saith the LORD; and I will heal him.
57:20 But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest,whose waters cast up mire and dirt.
57:21 There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.
58:1 Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and shewmy people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins.
58:2 Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nationthat did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God:they ask of me the ordinances of justice; they take delight inapproaching to God.
58:3 Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not? whereforehave we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, inthe day of your fast ye find pleasure, and exact all your labours.
58:4 Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fistof wickedness: ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voiceto be heard on high.
58:5 Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflicthis soul? is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spreadsackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and anacceptable day to the LORD?  
58:6 Is not this the fast that I havechosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens,and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?  
58:7 Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring thepoor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, thatthou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?
58:8 Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine healthshall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go beforethee; the glory of the LORD shall be thy rereward.
58:9 Then shalt thou call, and the LORD shall answer; thou shalt cry,and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of theethe yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; 
58:10 And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflictedsoul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be asthe noon day: 
58:11 And the LORD shall guide thee continually, andsatisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt belike a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters failnot.
58:12 And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places:thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thoushalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths todwell in.
58:13 If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thypleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy ofthe LORD, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways,nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: 
58:14 Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee toride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with theheritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spokenit.
59:1 Behold, the LORD's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save;neither his ear heavy, that it cannot hear: 
59:2 But your iniquitieshave separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid hisface from you, that he will not hear.
59:3 For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers withiniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue hath mutteredperverseness.
59:4 None calleth for justice, nor any pleadeth for truth: they trustin vanity, and speak lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forthiniquity.
59:5 They hatch cockatrice' eggs, and weave the spider's web: he thateateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh outinto a viper.
59:6 Their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they coverthemselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, andthe act of violence is in their hands.
59:7 Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocentblood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; wasting anddestruction are in their paths.
59:8 The way of peace they know not; and there is no judgment in theirgoings: they have made them crooked paths: whosoever goeth thereinshall not know peace.
59:9 Therefore is judgment far from us, neither doth justice overtakeus: we wait for light, but behold obscurity; for brightness, but wewalk in darkness.
59:10 We grope for the wall like the blind, and we grope as if we hadno eyes: we stumble at noon day as in the night; we are in desolateplaces as dead men.
59:11 We roar all like bears, and mourn sore like doves: we look forjudgment, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far off from us.
59:12 For our transgressions are multiplied before thee, and our sinstestify against us: for our transgressions are with us; and as for ouriniquities, we know them; 
59:13 In transgressing and lying against theLORD, and departing away from our God, speaking oppression and revolt,conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.
59:14 And judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth afaroff: for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.
59:15 Yea, truth faileth; and he that departeth from evil makethhimself a prey: and the LORD saw it, and it displeased him that therewas no judgment.
59:16 And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was nointercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and hisrighteousness, it sustained him.
59:17 For he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and an helmet ofsalvation upon his head; and he put on the garments of vengeance forclothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.
59:18 According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, fury to hisadversaries, recompence to his enemies; to the islands he will repayrecompence.
59:19 So shall they fear the name of the LORD from the west, and hisglory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like aflood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a standard against him.
59:20 And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turnfrom transgression in Jacob, saith the LORD.
59:21 As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the LORD; Myspirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth,shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed,nor out of the mouth of thy seed's seed, saith the LORD, fromhenceforth and for ever.
60:1 Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD isrisen upon thee.
60:2 For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and grossdarkness the people: but the LORD shall arise upon thee, and his gloryshall be seen upon thee.
60:3 And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to thebrightness of thy rising.
60:4 Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: all they gatherthemselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far,and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.
60:5 Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart shallfear, and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea shall beconverted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee.
60:6 The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries ofMidian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come: they shall bringgold and incense; and they shall shew forth the praises of the LORD.
60:7 All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, therams of Nebaioth shall minister unto thee: they shall come up withacceptance on mine altar, and I will glorify the house of my glory.
60:8 Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to theirwindows?  
60:9 Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships ofTarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and theirgold with them, unto the name of the LORD thy God, and to the Holy Oneof Israel, because he hath glorified thee.
60:10 And the sons of strangers shall build up thy walls, and theirkings shall minister unto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but inmy favour have I had mercy on thee.
60:11 Therefore thy gates shall be open continually; they shall not beshut day nor night; that men may bring unto thee the forces of theGentiles, and that their kings may be brought.
60:12 For the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shallperish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted.
60:13 The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the fir tree, thepine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of mysanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
60:14 The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bendingunto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves downat the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee; The city of theLORD, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
60:15 Whereas thou has been forsaken and hated, so that no man wentthrough thee, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of manygenerations.
60:16 Thou shalt also suck the milk of the Gentiles, and shalt suckthe breast of kings: and thou shalt know that I the LORD am thySaviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.
60:17 For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver,and for wood brass, and for stones iron: I will also make thy officerspeace, and thine exactors righteousness.
60:18 Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nordestruction within thy borders; but thou shalt call thy wallsSalvation, and thy gates Praise.
60:19 The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither forbrightness shall the moon give light unto thee: but the LORD shall beunto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory.
60:20 Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdrawitself: for the LORD shall be thine everlasting light, and the days ofthy mourning shall be ended.
60:21 Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit theland for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that Imay be glorified.
60:22 A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strongnation: I the LORD will hasten it in his time.
61:1 The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hathanointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me tobind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, andthe opening of the prison to them that are bound; 
61:2 To proclaim theacceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of our God; tocomfort all that mourn; 
61:3 To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion,to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, thegarment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might becalled trees of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he mightbe glorified.
61:4 And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up theformer desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, thedesolations of many generations.
61:5 And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons ofthe alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.
61:6 But ye shall be named the Priests of the LORD: men shall call youthe Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, andin their glory shall ye boast yourselves.
61:7 For your shame ye shall have double; and for confusion they shallrejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possessthe double: everlasting joy shall be unto them.
61:8 For I the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering;and I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlastingcovenant with them.
61:9 And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and theiroffspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them,that they are the seed which the LORD hath blessed.
61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall be joyful inmy God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hathcovered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom deckethhimself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with herjewels.
61:11 For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the gardencauseth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the LordGOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all thenations.
62:1 For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem'ssake I will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth asbrightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.
62:2 And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thyglory: and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of theLORD shall name.
62:3 Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the LORD, anda royal diadem in the hand of thy God.
62:4 Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land anymore be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thyland Beulah: for the LORD delighteth in thee, and thy land shall bemarried.
62:5 For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marrythee: and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy Godrejoice over thee.
62:6 I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shallnever hold their peace day nor night: ye that make mention of theLORD, keep not silence, 
62:7 And give him no rest, till he establish,and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth.
62:8 The LORD hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of hisstrength, Surely I will no more give thy corn to be meat for thineenemies; and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine, forthe which thou hast laboured: 
62:9 But they that have gathered itshall eat it, and praise the LORD; and they that have brought ittogether shall drink it in the courts of my holiness.
62:10 Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of thepeople; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up astandard for the people.
62:11 Behold, the LORD hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Sayye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, hisreward is with him, and his work before him.
62:12 And they shall call them, The holy people, The redeemed of theLORD: and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken.
63:1 Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments fromBozrah?  this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in thegreatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty tosave.
63:2 Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments likehim that treadeth in the winefat?  
63:3 I have trodden the winepressalone; and of the people there was none with me: for I will tread themin mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall besprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.
63:4 For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of myredeemed is come.
63:5 And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered thatthere was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvationunto me; and my fury, it upheld me.
63:6 And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make themdrunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth.
63:7 I will mention the lovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praisesof the LORD, according to all that the LORD hath bestowed on us, andthe great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowedon them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude ofhis lovingkindnesses.
63:8 For he said, Surely they are my people, children that will notlie: so he was their Saviour.
63:9 In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of hispresence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; andhe bare them, and carried them all the days of old.
63:10 But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he wasturned to be their enemy, and he fought against them.
63:11 Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, and his people,saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with theshepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit withinhim?  
63:12 That led them by the right hand of Moses with his gloriousarm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlastingname?  
63:13 That led them through the deep, as an horse in thewilderness, that they should not stumble?  
63:14 As a beast goeth downinto the valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest: so didstthou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name.
63:15 Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thyholiness and of thy glory: where is thy zeal and thy strength, thesounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me? are theyrestrained?  
63:16 Doubtless thou art our father, though Abraham beignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O LORD, art ourfather, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting.
63:17 O LORD, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardenedour heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants' sake, the tribes ofthine inheritance.
63:18 The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while:our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.
63:19 We are thine: thou never barest rule over them; they were notcalled by thy name.
64:1 Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest comedown, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence, 
64:2 As whenthe melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to makethy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble atthy presence!  
64:3 When thou didst terrible things which we lookednot for, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.
64:4 For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, norperceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee,what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him.
64:5 Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, thosethat remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we havesinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.
64:6 But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnessesare as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities,like the wind, have taken us away.
64:7 And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth uphimself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, andhast consumed us, because of our iniquities.
64:8 But now, O LORD, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thouour potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.
64:9 Be not wroth very sore, O LORD, neither remember iniquity forever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people.
64:10 Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness,Jerusalem a desolation.
64:11 Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praisedthee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laidwaste.
64:12 Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O LORD? wilt thouhold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?  
65:1 I am sought of themthat asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said,Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name.
65:2 I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people,which walketh in a way that was not good, after their own thoughts;
65:3 A people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face; thatsacrificeth in gardens, and burneth incense upon altars of brick; 
65:4 Which remain among the graves, and lodge in the monuments, which eatswine's flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;
65:5 Which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holierthan thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all theday.
65:6 Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, butwill recompense, even recompense into their bosom, 
65:7 Youriniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith theLORD, which have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed meupon the hills: therefore will I measure their former work into theirbosom.
65:8 Thus saith the LORD, As the new wine is found in the cluster, andone saith, Destroy it not; for a blessing is in it: so will I do formy servants' sakes, that I may not destroy them all.
65:9 And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah aninheritor of my mountains: and mine elect shall inherit it, and myservants shall dwell there.
65:10 And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor aplace for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me.
65:11 But ye are they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holymountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish thedrink offering unto that number.
65:12 Therefore will I number you to the sword, and ye shall all bowdown to the slaughter: because when I called, ye did not answer; whenI spake, ye did not hear; but did evil before mine eyes, and didchoose that wherein I delighted not.
65:13 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, my servants shalleat, but ye shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but yeshall be thirsty: behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall beashamed: 
65:14 Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but yeshall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall howl for vexation of spirit.
65:15 And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen: for theLord GOD shall slay thee, and call his servants by another name: 
65:16 That he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in theGod of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the Godof truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because theyare hid from mine eyes.
65:17 For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and theformer shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.
65:18 But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create: for,behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.
65:19 And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people: and thevoice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice ofcrying.
65:20 There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old manthat hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundredyears old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall beaccursed.
65:21 And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shallplant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.
65:22 They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant,and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people,and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
65:23 They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; forthey are the seed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring withthem.
65:24 And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer;and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
65:25 The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shalleat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's meat. Theyshall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the LORD.
66:1 Thus saith the LORD, The heaven is my throne, and the earth is myfootstool: where is the house that ye build unto me? and where is theplace of my rest?  
66:2 For all those things hath mine hand made, andall those things have been, saith the LORD: but to this man will Ilook, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and tremblethat my word.
66:3 He that killeth an ox is as if he slew a man; he that sacrificetha lamb, as if he cut off a dog's neck; he that offereth an oblation,as if he offered swine's blood; he that burneth incense, as if heblessed an idol.Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delighteth intheir abominations.
66:4 I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fearsupon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spake, theydid not hear: but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that inwhich I delighted not.
66:5 Hear the word of the LORD, ye that tremble at his word; Yourbrethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name's sake, said,Let the LORD be glorified: but he shall appear to your joy, and theyshall be ashamed.
66:6 A voice of noise from the city, a voice from the temple, a voiceof the LORD that rendereth recompence to his enemies.
66:7 Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came,she was delivered of a man child.
66:8 Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall theearth be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born atonce?  for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.
66:9 Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? saiththe LORD: shall I cause to bring forth, and shut the womb? saith thyGod.
66:10 Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all ye thatlove her: rejoice for joy with her, all ye that mourn for her: 
66:11 That ye may suck, and be satisfied with the breasts of herconsolations; that ye may milk out, and be delighted with theabundance of her glory.
66:12 For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will extend peace to her likea river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream: thenshall ye suck, ye shall be borne upon her sides, and be dandled uponher knees.
66:13 As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and yeshall be comforted in Jerusalem.
66:14 And when ye see this, your heart shall rejoice, and your bonesshall flourish like an herb: and the hand of the LORD shall be knowntoward his servants, and his indignation toward his enemies.
66:15 For, behold, the LORD will come with fire, and with his chariotslike a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke withflames of fire.
66:16 For by fire and by his sword will the LORD plead with all flesh:and the slain of the LORD shall be many.
66:17 They that sanctify themselves, and purify themselves in thegardens behind one tree in the midst, eating swine's flesh, and theabomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith theLORD.
66:18 For I know their works and their thoughts: it shall come, that Iwill gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and see myglory.
66:19 And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those thatescape of them unto the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that drawthe bow, to Tubal, and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have notheard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare myglory among the Gentiles.
66:20 And they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto theLORD out of all nations upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters,and upon mules, and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain Jerusalem,saith the LORD, as the children of Israel bring an offering in a cleanvessel into the house of the LORD.
66:21 And I will also take of them for priests and for Levites, saiththe LORD.
66:22 For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make,shall remain before me, saith the LORD, so shall your seed and yourname remain.
66:23 And it shall come to pass, that from one new moon to another,and from one sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worshipbefore me, saith the LORD.
66:24 And they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the menthat have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die,neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorringunto all flesh.