1:1 Now after the death of Moses the servant of the LORD it came topass, that the LORD spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister,saying, 
1:2 Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go overthis Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do giveto them, even to the children of Israel.
1:3 Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that haveI given unto you, as I said unto Moses.
1:4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon even unto the great river,the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the greatsea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your coast.
1:5 There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the daysof thy life: as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee: I will notfail thee, nor forsake thee.
1:6 Be strong and of a good courage: for unto this people shalt thoudivide for an inheritance the land, which I sware unto their fathersto give them.
1:7 Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observeto do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee:turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayestprosper withersoever thou goest.
1:8 This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thoushalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to doaccording to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thyway prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success.
1:9 Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be notafraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the LORD thy God is with theewhithersoever thou goest.
1:10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, 
1:11 Pass through the host, and command the people, saying, Prepare youvictuals; for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan, to goin to possess the land, which the LORD your God giveth you to possessit.
1:12 And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to half the tribeof Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying, 
1:13 Remember the word which Mosesthe servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, The LORD your God hathgiven you rest, and hath given you this land.
1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall remain inthe land which Moses gave you on this side Jordan; but ye shall passbefore your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valour, and helpthem; 
1:15 Until the LORD have given your brethren rest, as he hathgiven you, and they also have possessed the land which the LORD yourGod giveth them: then ye shall return unto the land of yourpossession, and enjoy it, which Moses the LORD's servant gave you onthis side Jordan toward the sunrising.
1:16 And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us wewill do, and whithersoever thou sendest us, we will go.
1:17 According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will wehearken unto thee: only the LORD thy God be with thee, as he was withMoses.
1:18 Whosoever he be that doth rebel against thy commandment, and willnot hearken unto thy words in all that thou commandest him, he shallbe put to death: only be strong and of a good courage.
2:1 And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shittim two men to spysecretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went, andcame into an harlot's house, named Rahab, and lodged there.
2:2 And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there camemen in hither to night of the children of Israel to search out thecountry.
2:3 And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth themen that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house: forthey be come to search out all the country.
2:4 And the woman took the two men, and hid them, and said thus, Therecame men unto me, but I wist not whence they were: 
2:5 And it came topass about the time of shutting of the gate, when it was dark, thatthe men went out: whither the men went I wot not: pursue after themquickly; for ye shall overtake them.
2:6 But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid themwith the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof.
2:7 And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan unto the fords:and as soon as they which pursued after them were gone out, they shutthe gate.
2:8 And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon theroof; 
2:9 And she said unto the men, I know that the LORD hath givenyou the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all theinhabitants of the land faint because of you.
2:10 For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red seafor you, when ye came out of Egypt; and what ye did unto the two kingsof the Amorites, that were on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Og,whom ye utterly destroyed.
2:11 And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt,neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because of you:for the LORD your God, he is God in heaven above, and in earthbeneath.
2:12 Now therefore, I pray you, swear unto me by the LORD, since Ihave shewed you kindness, that ye will also shew kindness unto myfather's house, and give me a true token: 
2:13 And that ye will savealive my father, and my mother, and my brethren, and my sisters, andall that they have, and deliver our lives from death.
2:14 And the men answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter notthis our business. And it shall be, when the LORD hath given us theland, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee.
2:15 Then she let them down by a cord through the window: for herhouse was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall.
2:16 And she said unto them, Get you to the mountain, lest thepursuers meet you; and hide yourselves there three days, until thepursuers be returned: and afterward may ye go your way.
2:17 And the men said unto her, We will be blameless of this thineoath which thou hast made us swear.
2:18 Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line ofscarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by: and thoushalt bring thy father, and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all thyfather's household, home unto thee.
2:19 And it shall be, that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thyhouse into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we willbe guiltless: and whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his bloodshall be on our head, if any hand be upon him.
2:20 And if thou utter this our business, then we will be quit ofthine oath which thou hast made us to swear.
2:21 And she said, According unto your words, so be it. And she sentthem away, and they departed: and she bound the scarlet line in thewindow.
2:22 And they went, and came unto the mountain, and abode there threedays, until the pursuers were returned: and the pursuers sought themthroughout all the way, but found them not.
2:23 So the two men returned, and descended from the mountain, andpassed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and told him allthings that befell them: 
2:24 And they said unto Joshua, Truly theLORD hath delivered into our hands all the land; for even all theinhabitants of the country do faint because of us.
3:1 And Joshua rose early in the morning; and they removed fromShittim, and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, andlodged there before they passed over.
3:2 And it came to pass after three days, that the officers wentthrough the host; 
3:3 And they commanded the people, saying, When yesee the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, and the priests theLevites bearing it, then ye shall remove from your place, and go afterit.
3:4 Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousandcubits by measure: come not near unto it, that ye may know the way bywhich ye must go: for ye have not passed this way heretofore.
3:5 And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves: for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders among you.
3:6 And Joshua spake unto the priests, saying, Take up the ark of thecovenant, and pass over before the people. And they took up the ark ofthe covenant, and went before the people.
3:7 And the LORD said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnifythee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that, as I waswith Moses, so I will be with thee.
3:8 And thou shalt command the priests that bear the ark of thecovenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink of the water ofJordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan.
3:9 And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither, and hearthe words of the LORD your God.
3:10 And Joshua said, Hereby ye shall know that the living God isamong you, and that he will without fail drive out from before you theCanaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Perizzites, andthe Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites.
3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the LORD of all the earthpasseth over before you into Jordan.
3:12 Now therefore take you twelve men out of the tribes of Israel,out of every tribe a man.
3:13 And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet ofthe priests that bear the ark of the LORD, the LORD of all the earth,shall rest in the waters of Jordan, that the waters of Jordan shall becut off from the waters that come down from above; and they shallstand upon an heap.
3:14 And it came to pass, when the people removed from their tents, topass over Jordan, and the priests bearing the ark of the covenantbefore the people; 
3:15 And as they that bare the ark were come untoJordan, and the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped inthe brim of the water, (for Jordan overfloweth all his banks all thetime of harvest,) 
3:16 That the waters which came down from abovestood and rose up upon an heap very far from the city Adam, that isbeside Zaretan: and those that came down toward the sea of the plain,even the salt sea, failed, and were cut off: and the people passedover right against Jericho.
3:17 And the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the LORDstood firm on dry ground in the midst of Jordan, and all theIsraelites passed over on dry ground, until all the people were passedclean over Jordan.
4:1 And it came to pass, when all the people were clean passed overJordan, that the LORD spake unto Joshua, saying, 
4:2 Take you twelvemen out of the people, out of every tribe a man, 
4:3 And command yethem, saying, Take you hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of theplace where the priests' feet stood firm, twelve stones, and ye shallcarry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place, whereye shall lodge this night.
4:4 Then Joshua called the twelve men, whom he had prepared of thechildren of Israel, out of every tribe a man: 
4:5 And Joshua said untothem, Pass over before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst ofJordan, and take you up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder,according unto the number of the tribes of the children of Israel: 
4:6 That this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask theirfathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones?  
4:7 Then ye shall answer them, That the waters of Jordan were cut offbefore the ark of the covenant of the LORD; when it passed overJordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off: and these stones shall befor a memorial unto the children of Israel for ever.
4:8 And the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded, and took uptwelve stones out of the midst of Jordan, as the LORD spake untoJoshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children ofIsrael, and carried them over with them unto the place where theylodged, and laid them down there.
4:9 And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, in theplace where the feet of the priests which bare the ark of the covenantstood: and they are there unto this day.
4:10 For the priests which bare the ark stood in the midst of Jordan,until everything was finished that the LORD commanded Joshua to speakunto the people, according to all that Moses commanded Joshua: and thepeople hasted and passed over.
4:11 And it came to pass, when all the people were clean passed over,that the ark of the LORD passed over, and the priests, in the presenceof the people.
4:12 And the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and half thetribe of Manasseh, passed over armed before the children of Israel, asMoses spake unto them: 
4:13 About forty thousand prepared for warpassed over before the LORD unto battle, to the plains of Jericho.
4:14 On that day the LORD magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel;and they feared him, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life.
4:15 And the LORD spake unto Joshua, saying, 
4:16 Command the prieststhat bear the ark of the testimony, that they come up out of Jordan.
4:17 Joshua therefore commanded the priests, saying, Come ye up out ofJordan.
4:18 And it came to pass, when the priests that bare the ark of thecovenant of the LORD were come up out of the midst of Jordan, and thesoles of the priests' feet were lifted up unto the dry land, that thewaters of Jordan returned unto their place, and flowed over all hisbanks, as they did before.
4:19 And the people came up out of Jordan on the tenth day of thefirst month, and encamped in Gilgal, in the east border of Jericho.
4:20 And those twelve stones, which they took out of Jordan, didJoshua pitch in Gilgal.
4:21 And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When yourchildren shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What meanthese stones?  
4:22 Then ye shall let your children know, saying,Israel came over this Jordan on dry land.
4:23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of Jordan from beforeyou, until ye were passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Redsea, which he dried up from before us, until we were gone over: 
4:24 That all the people of the earth might know the hand of the LORD, thatit is mighty: that ye might fear the LORD your God for ever.
5:1 And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites, whichwere on the side of Jordan westward, and all the kings of theCanaanites, which were by the sea, heard that the LORD had dried upthe waters of Jordan from before the children of Israel, until we werepassed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in themany more, because of the children of Israel.
5:2 At that time the LORD said unto Joshua, Make thee sharp knives,and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time.
5:3 And Joshua made him sharp knives, and circumcised the children ofIsrael at the hill of the foreskins.
5:4 And this is the cause why Joshua did circumcise: All the peoplethat came out of Egypt, that were males, even all the men of war, diedin the wilderness by the way, after they came out of Egypt.
5:5 Now all the people that came out were circumcised: but all thepeople that were born in the wilderness by the way as they came forthout of Egypt, them they had not circumcised.
5:6 For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness,till all the people that were men of war, which came out of Egypt,were consumed, because they obeyed not the voice of the LORD: untowhom the LORD sware that he would not shew them the land, which theLORD sware unto their fathers that he would give us, a land thatfloweth with milk and honey.
5:7 And their children, whom he raised up in their stead, them Joshuacircumcised: for they were uncircumcised, because they had notcircumcised them by the way.
5:8 And it came to pass, when they had done circumcising all thepeople, that they abode in their places in the camp, till they werewhole.
5:9 And the LORD said unto Joshua, This day have I rolled away thereproach of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of the place iscalled Gilgal unto this day.
5:10 And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal, and kept thepassover on the fourteenth day of the month at even in the plains ofJericho.
5:11 And they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow afterthe passover, unleavened cakes, and parched corn in the selfsame day.
5:12 And the manna ceased on the morrow after they had eaten of theold corn of the land; neither had the children of Israel manna anymore; but they did eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
5:13 And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he liftedup his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man over againsthim with his sword drawn in his hand: and Joshua went unto him, andsaid unto him, Art thou for us, or for our adversaries?  
5:14 And hesaid, Nay; but as captain of the host of the LORD am I now come. AndJoshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship, and said untohim, What saith my Lord unto his servant?  
5:15 And the captain of theLORD's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; forthe place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so.
6:1 Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children ofIsrael: none went out, and none came in.
6:2 And the LORD said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine handJericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valour.
6:3 And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go roundabout the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days.
6:4 And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets oframs' horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seventimes, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.
6:5 And it shall come to pass, that when they make a long blast withthe ram's horn, and when ye hear the sound of the trumpet, all thepeople shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city shallfall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straightbefore him.
6:6 And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said unto them,Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seventrumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD.
6:7 And he said unto the people, Pass on, and compass the city, andlet him that is armed pass on before the ark of the LORD.
6:8 And it came to pass, when Joshua had spoken unto the people, thatthe seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns passed onbefore the LORD, and blew with the trumpets: and the ark of thecovenant of the LORD followed them.
6:9 And the armed men went before the priests that blew with thetrumpets, and the rereward came after the ark, the priests going on,and blowing with the trumpets.
6:10 And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout,nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed outof your mouth, until the day I bid you shout; then shall ye shout.
6:11 So the ark of the LORD compassed the city, going about it once:and they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.
6:12 And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up theark of the LORD.
6:13 And seven priests bearing seven trumpets of rams' horns beforethe ark of the LORD went on continually, and blew with the trumpets:and the armed men went before them; but the rereward came after theark of the LORD, the priests going on, and blowing with the trumpets.
6:14 And the second day they compassed the city once, and returnedinto the camp: so they did six days.
6:15 And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose earlyabout the dawning of the day, and compassed the city after the samemanner seven times: only on that day they compassed the city seventimes.
6:16 And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests blewwith the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout; for the LORDhath given you the city.
6:17 And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that aretherein, to the LORD: only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and allthat are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that wesent.
6:18 And ye, in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lestye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing, andmake the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it.
6:19 But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and iron, areconsecrated unto the LORD: they shall come into the treasury of theLORD.
6:20 So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets:and it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet,and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell downflat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straightbefore him, and they took the city.
6:21 And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man andwoman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of thesword.
6:22 But Joshua had said unto the two men that had spied out thecountry, Go into the harlot's house, and bring out thence the woman,and all that she hath, as ye sware unto her.
6:23 And the young men that were spies went in, and brought out Rahab,and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all that shehad; and they brought out all her kindred, and left them without thecamp of Israel.
6:24 And they burnt the city with fire, and all that was therein: onlythe silver, and the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron, theyput into the treasury of the house of the LORD.
6:25 And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father'shousehold, and all that she had; and she dwelleth in Israel even untothis day; because she hid the messengers, which Joshua sent to spy outJericho.
6:26 And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the manbefore the LORD, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho: heshall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his youngestson shall he set up the gates of it.
6:27 So the LORD was with Joshua; and his fame was noised throughoutall the country.
7:1 But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursedthing: for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son ofZerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing: and theanger of the LORD was kindled against the children of Israel.
7:2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethaven,on the east of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view thecountry.And the men went up and viewed Ai.
7:3 And they returned to Joshua, and said unto him, Let not all thepeople go up; but let about two or three thousand men go up and smiteAi; and make not all the people to labour thither; for they are butfew.
7:4 So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men:and they fled before the men of Ai.
7:5 And the men of Ai smote of them about thirty and six men: for theychased them from before the gate even unto Shebarim, and smote them inthe going down: wherefore the hearts of the people melted, and becameas water.
7:6 And Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his facebefore the ark of the LORD until the eventide, he and the elders ofIsrael, and put dust upon their heads.
7:7 And Joshua said, Alas, O LORD God, wherefore hast thou at allbrought this people over Jordan, to deliver us into the hand of theAmorites, to destroy us? would to God we had been content, and dwelton the other side Jordan!  
7:8 O LORD, what shall I say, when Israelturneth their backs before their enemies!  
7:9 For the Canaanites andall the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ usround, and cut off our name from the earth: and what wilt thou do untothy great name?  
7:10 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Get thee up;wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face?  
7:11 Israel hath sinned, andthey have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them: forthey have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen, anddissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff.
7:12 Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before theirenemies, but turned their backs before their enemies, because theywere accursed: neither will I be with you any more, except ye destroythe accursed from among you.
7:13 Up, sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow: for thus saith the LORD God of Israel, There is an accursedthing in the midst of thee, O Israel: thou canst not stand beforethine enemies, until ye take away the accursed thing from among you.
7:14 In the morning therefore ye shall be brought according to yourtribes: and it shall be, that the tribe which the LORD taketh shallcome according to the families thereof; and the family which the LORDshall take shall come by households; and the household which the LORDshall take shall come man by man.
7:15 And it shall be, that he that is taken with the accursed thingshall be burnt with fire, he and all that he hath: because he hathtransgressed the covenant of the LORD, and because he hath wroughtfolly in Israel.
7:16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning, and brought Israel bytheir tribes; and the tribe of Judah was taken: 
7:17 And he broughtthe family of Judah; and he took the family of the Zarhites: and hebrought the family of the Zarhites man by man; and Zabdi was taken:
7:18 And he brought his household man by man; and Achan, the son ofCarmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, wastaken.
7:19 And Joshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory tothe LORD God of Israel, and make confession unto him; and tell me nowwhat thou hast done; hide it not from me.
7:20 And Achan answered Joshua, and said, Indeed I have sinned againstthe LORD God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done: 
7:21 When I sawamong the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment, and two hundred shekelsof silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, then I covetedthem, and took them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in themidst of my tent, and the silver under it.
7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran unto the tent; and,behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.
7:23 And they took them out of the midst of the tent, and brought themunto Joshua, and unto all the children of Israel, and laid them outbefore the LORD.
7:24 And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah,and the silver, and the garment, and the wedge of gold, and his sons,and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheep, and histent, and all that he had: and they brought them unto the valley ofAchor.
7:25 And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? the LORD shalltrouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, andburned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones.
7:26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. Sothe LORD turned from the fierceness of his anger. Wherefore the nameof that place was called, The valley of Achor, unto this day.
8:1 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear not, neither be thou dismayed:take all the people of war with thee, and arise, go up to Ai: see, Ihave given into thy hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city,and his land: 
8:2 And thou shalt do to Ai and her king as thou didstunto Jericho and her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattlethereof, shall ye take for a prey unto yourselves: lay thee an ambushfor the city behind it.
8:3 So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai:and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valour, and sentthem away by night.
8:4 And he commanded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in waitagainst the city, even behind the city: go not very far from the city,but be ye all ready: 
8:5 And I, and all the people that are with me,will approach unto the city: and it shall come to pass, when they comeout against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them, 
8:6 (For they will come out after us) till we have drawn them from thecity; for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first:therefore we will flee before them.
8:7 Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city:for the LORD your God will deliver it into your hand.
8:8 And it shall be, when ye have taken the city, that ye shall setthe city on fire: according to the commandment of the LORD shall yedo. See, I have commanded you.
8:9 Joshua therefore sent them forth: and they went to lie in ambush,and abode between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai: but Joshualodged that night among the people.
8:10 And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and numbered the people,and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.
8:11 And all the people, even the people of war that were with him,went up, and drew nigh, and came before the city, and pitched on thenorth side of Ai: now there was a valley between them and Ai.
8:12 And he took about five thousand men, and set them to lie inambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city.
8:13 And when they had set the people, even all the host that was onthe north of the city, and their liers in wait on the west of thecity, Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley.
8:14 And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hastedand rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel tobattle, he and all his people, at a time appointed, before the plain;but he wist not that there were liers in ambush against him behind thecity.
8:15 And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten beforethem, and fled by the way of the wilderness.
8:16 And all the people that were in Ai were called together to pursueafter them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn away fromthe city.
8:17 And there was not a man left in Ai or Bethel, that went not outafter Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel.
8:18 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is inthy hand toward Ai; for I will give it into thine hand. And Joshuastretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city.
8:19 And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran assoon as he had stretched out his hand: and they entered into the city,and took it, and hasted and set the city on fire.
8:20 And when the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and, behold,the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power toflee this way or that way: and the people that fled to the wildernessturned back upon the pursuers.
8:21 And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken thecity, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again,and slew the men of Ai.
8:22 And the other issued out of the city against them; so they werein the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side: andthey smote them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.
8:23 And the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him to Joshua.
8:24 And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slaying allthe inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness wherein theychased them, and when they were all fallen on the edge of the sword,until they were consumed, that all the Israelites returned unto Ai,and smote it with the edge of the sword.
8:25 And so it was, that all that fell that day, both of men andwomen, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.
8:26 For Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith he stretched out thespear, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.
8:27 Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Israel took for a preyunto themselves, according unto the word of the LORD which hecommanded Joshua.
8:28 And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, even adesolation unto this day.
8:29 And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until eventide: and assoon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take hiscarcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate ofthe city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remainethunto this day.
8:30 Then Joshua built an altar unto the LORD God of Israel in mountEbal, 
8:31 As Moses the servant of the LORD commanded the children ofIsrael, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an altar ofwhole stones, over which no man hath lift up any iron: and theyoffered thereon burnt offerings unto the LORD, and sacrificed peaceofferings.
8:32 And he wrote there upon the stones a copy of the law of Moses,which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.
8:33 And all Israel, and their elders, and officers, and their judges,stood on this side the ark and on that side before the priests theLevites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, as well thestranger, as he that was born among them; half of them over againstmount Gerizim, and half of them over against mount Ebal; as Moses theservant of the LORD had commanded before, that they should bless thepeople of Israel.
8:34 And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessings andcursings, according to all that is written in the book of the law.
8:35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshuaread not before all the congregation of Israel, with the women, andthe little ones, and the strangers that were conversant among them.
9:1 And it came to pass, when all the kings which were on this sideJordan, in the hills, and in the valleys, and in all the coasts of thegreat sea over against Lebanon, the Hittite, and the Amorite, theCanaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard thereof;
9:2 That they gathered themselves together, to fight with Joshua andwith Israel, with one accord.
9:3 And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done untoJericho and to Ai, 
9:4 They did work wilily, and went and made as ifthey had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their asses, andwine bottles, old, and rent, and bound up; 
9:5 And old shoes andclouted upon their feet, and old garments upon them; and all the breadof their provision was dry and mouldy.
9:6 And they went to Joshua unto the camp at Gilgal, and said untohim, and to the men of Israel, We be come from a far country: nowtherefore make ye a league with us.
9:7 And the men of Israel said unto the Hivites, Peradventure ye dwellamong us; and how shall we make a league with you?  
9:8 And they saidunto Joshua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who areye? and from whence come ye?  
9:9 And they said unto him, From a veryfar country thy servants are come because of the name of the LORD thyGod: for we have heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt,
9:10 And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites, that werebeyond Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan,which was at Ashtaroth.
9:11 Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spaketo us, saying, Take victuals with you for the journey, and go to meetthem, and say unto them, We are your servants: therefore now make ye aleague with us.
9:12 This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses onthe day we came forth to go unto you; but now, behold, it is dry, andit is mouldy: 
9:13 And these bottles of wine, which we filled, werenew; and, behold, they be rent: and these our garments and our shoesare become old by reason of the very long journey.
9:14 And the men took of their victuals, and asked not counsel at themouth of the LORD.
9:15 And Joshua made peace with them, and made a league with them, tolet them live: and the princes of the congregation sware unto them.
9:16 And it came to pass at the end of three days after they had madea league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbours,and that they dwelt among them.
9:17 And the children of Israel journeyed, and came unto their citieson the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, andBeeroth, and Kirjathjearim.
9:18 And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes ofthe congregation had sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel. Andall the congregation murmured against the princes.
9:19 But all the princes said unto all the congregation, We have swornunto them by the LORD God of Israel: now therefore we may not touchthem.
9:20 This we will do to them; we will even let them live, lest wrathbe upon us, because of the oath which we sware unto them.
9:21 And the princes said unto them, Let them live; but let them behewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation; as theprinces had promised them.
9:22 And Joshua called for them, and he spake unto them, saying,Wherefore have ye beguiled us, saying, We are very far from you; whenye dwell among us?  
9:23 Now therefore ye are cursed, and there shallnone of you be freed from being bondmen, and hewers of wood anddrawers of water for the house of my God.
9:24 And they answered Joshua, and said, Because it was certainly toldthy servants, how that the LORD thy God commanded his servant Moses togive you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the landfrom before you, therefore we were sore afraid of our lives because ofyou, and have done this thing.
9:25 And now, behold, we are in thine hand: as it seemeth good andright unto thee to do unto us, do.
9:26 And so did he unto them, and delivered them out of the hand ofthe children of Israel, that they slew them not.
9:27 And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of waterfor the congregation, and for the altar of the LORD, even unto thisday, in the place which he should choose.
10:1 Now it came to pass, when Adonizedec king of Jerusalem had heardhow Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had doneto Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and howthe inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were amongthem; 
10:2 That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city,as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, andall the men thereof were mighty.
10:3 Wherefore Adonizedec king of Jerusalem, sent unto Hoham king ofHebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king ofLachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, 
10:4 Come up unto me,and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace withJoshua and with the children of Israel.
10:5 Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem,the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the kingof Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and alltheir hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it.
10:6 And the men of Gibeon sent unto Joshua to the camp to Gilgal,saying, Slack not thy hand from thy servants; come up to us quickly,and save us, and help us: for all the kings of the Amorites that dwellin the mountains are gathered together against us.
10:7 So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of warwith him, and all the mighty men of valour.
10:8 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear them not: for I havedelivered them into thine hand; there shall not a man of them standbefore thee.
10:9 Joshua therefore came unto them suddenly, and went up from Gilgalall night.
10:10 And the LORD discomfited them before Israel, and slew them witha great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goethup to Bethhoron, and smote them to Azekah, and unto Makkedah.
10:11 And it came to pass, as they fled from before Israel, and werein the going down to Bethhoron, that the LORD cast down great stonesfrom heaven upon them unto Azekah, and they died: they were more whichdied with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew withthe sword.
10:12 Then spake Joshua to the LORD in the day when the LORD deliveredup the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in thesight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, inthe valley of Ajalon.
10:13 And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the peoplehad avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in thebook of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, andhasted not to go down about a whole day.
10:14 And there was no day like that before it or after it, that theLORD hearkened unto the voice of a man: for the LORD fought forIsrael.
10:15 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp toGilgal.
10:16 But these five kings fled, and hid themselves in a cave atMakkedah.
10:17 And it was told Joshua, saying, The five kings are found hid ina cave at Makkedah.
10:18 And Joshua said, Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave,and set men by it for to keep them: 
10:19 And stay ye not, but pursueafter your enemies, and smite the hindmost of them; suffer them not toenter into their cities: for the LORD your God hath delivered theminto your hand.
10:20 And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel hadmade an end of slaying them with a very great slaughter, till theywere consumed, that the rest which remained of them entered intofenced cities.
10:21 And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah inpeace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.
10:22 Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring outthose five kings unto me out of the cave.
10:23 And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him outof the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king ofJarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
10:24 And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings untoJoshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said untothe captains of the men of war which went with him, Come near, putyour feet upon the necks of these kings. And they came near, and puttheir feet upon the necks of them.
10:25 And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed, be strongand of good courage: for thus shall the LORD do to all your enemiesagainst whom ye fight.
10:26 And afterward Joshua smote them, and slew them, and hanged themon five trees: and they were hanging upon the trees until the evening.
10:27 And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun,that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and castthem into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great stones inthe cave's mouth, which remain until this very day.
10:28 And that day Joshua took Makkedah, and smote it with the edge ofthe sword, and the king thereof he utterly destroyed, them, and allthe souls that were therein; he let none remain: and he did to theking of Makkedah as he did unto the king of Jericho.
10:29 Then Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, untoLibnah, and fought against Libnah: 
10:30 And the LORD delivered italso, and the king thereof, into the hand of Israel; and he smote itwith the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein; helet none remain in it; but did unto the king thereof as he did untothe king of Jericho.
10:31 And Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, untoLachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it: 
10:32 And theLORD delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel, which took it on thesecond day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the soulsthat were therein, according to all that he had done to Libnah.
10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish; and Joshuasmote him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.
10:34 And from Lachish Joshua passed unto Eglon, and all Israel withhim; and they encamped against it, and fought against it: 
10:35 Andthey took it on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, andall the souls that were therein he utterly destroyed that day,according to all that he had done to Lachish.
10:36 And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, untoHebron; and they fought against it: 
10:37 And they took it, and smoteit with the edge of the sword, and the king thereof, and all thecities thereof, and all the souls that were therein; he left noneremaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; but destroyedit utterly, and all the souls that were therein.
10:38 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; andfought against it: 
10:39 And he took it, and the king thereof, and allthe cities thereof; and they smote them with the edge of the sword,and utterly destroyed all the souls that were therein; he left noneremaining: as he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to theking thereof; as he had done also to Libnah, and to her king.
10:40 So Joshua smote all the country of the hills, and of the south,and of the vale, and of the springs, and all their kings: he left noneremaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the LORD God ofIsrael commanded.
10:41 And Joshua smote them from Kadeshbarnea even unto Gaza, and allthe country of Goshen, even unto Gibeon.
10:42 And all these kings and their land did Joshua take at one time,because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.
10:43 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp toGilgal.
11:1 And it came to pass, when Jabin king of Hazor had heard thosethings, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king ofShimron, and to the king of Achshaph, 
11:2 And to the kings that wereon the north of the mountains, and of the plains south of Chinneroth,and in the valley, and in the borders of Dor on the west, 
11:3 And tothe Canaanite on the east and on the west, and to the Amorite, and theHittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, and tothe Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh.
11:4 And they went out, they and all their hosts with them, muchpeople, even as the sand that is upon the sea shore in multitude, withhorses and chariots very many.
11:5 And when all these kings were met together, they came and pitchedtogether at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel.
11:6 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Be not afraid because of them: forto morrow about this time will I deliver them up all slain beforeIsrael: thou shalt hough their horses, and burn their chariots withfire.
11:7 So Joshua came, and all the people of war with him, against themby the waters of Merom suddenly; and they fell upon them.
11:8 And the LORD delivered them into the hand of Israel, who smotethem, and chased them unto great Zidon, and unto Misrephothmaim, andunto the valley of Mizpeh eastward; and they smote them, until theyleft them none remaining.
11:9 And Joshua did unto them as the LORD bade him: he houghed theirhorses, and burnt their chariots with fire.
11:10 And Joshua at that time turned back, and took Hazor, and smotethe king thereof with the sword: for Hazor beforetime was the head ofall those kingdoms.
11:11 And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge ofthe sword, utterly destroying them: there was not any left to breathe:and he burnt Hazor with fire.
11:12 And all the cities of those kings, and all the kings of them,did Joshua take, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and heutterly destroyed them, as Moses the servant of the LORD commanded.
11:13 But as for the cities that stood still in their strength, Israelburned none of them, save Hazor only; that did Joshua burn.
11:14 And all the spoil of these cities, and the cattle, the childrenof Israel took for a prey unto themselves; but every man they smotewith the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them, neitherleft they any to breathe.
11:15 As the LORD commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses commandJoshua, and so did Joshua; he left nothing undone of all that the LORDcommanded Moses.
11:16 So Joshua took all that land, the hills, and all the southcountry, and all the land of Goshen, and the valley, and the plain,and the mountain of Israel, and the valley of the same; 
11:17 Evenfrom the mount Halak, that goeth up to Seir, even unto Baalgad in thevalley of Lebanon under mount Hermon: and all their kings he took, andsmote them, and slew them.
11:18 Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
11:19 There was not a city that made peace with the children ofIsrael, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: all other theytook in battle.
11:20 For it was of the LORD to harden their hearts, that they shouldcome against Israel in battle, that he might destroy them utterly, andthat they might have no favour, but that he might destroy them, as theLORD commanded Moses.
11:21 And at that time came Joshua, and cut off the Anakims from themountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all themountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel: Joshuadestroyed them utterly with their cities.
11:22 There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the childrenof Israel: only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there remained.
11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORDsaid unto Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israelaccording to their divisions by their tribes. And the land rested fromwar.
12:1 Now these are the kings of the land, which the children of Israelsmote, and possessed their land on the other side Jordan toward therising of the sun, from the river Arnon unto mount Hermon, and all theplain on the east: 
12:2 Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt inHeshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the riverArnon, and from the middle of the river, and from half Gilead, evenunto the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
12:3 And from the plain to the sea of Chinneroth on the east, and untothe sea of the plain, even the salt sea on the east, the way toBethjeshimoth; and from the south, under Ashdothpisgah: 
12:4 And thecoast of Og king of Bashan, which was of the remnant of the giants,that dwelt at Ashtaroth and at Edrei, 
12:5 And reigned in mountHermon, and in Salcah, and in all Bashan, unto the border of theGeshurites and the Maachathites, and half Gilead, the border of Sihonking of Heshbon.
12:6 Them did Moses the servant of the LORD and the children of Israelsmite: and Moses the servant of the LORD gave it for a possession untothe Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh.
12:7 And these are the kings of the country which Joshua and thechildren of Israel smote on this side Jordan on the west, from Baalgadin the valley of Lebanon even unto the mount Halak, that goeth up toSeir; which Joshua gave unto the tribes of Israel for a possessionaccording to their divisions; 
12:8 In the mountains, and in thevalleys, and in the plains, and in the springs, and in the wilderness,and in the south country; the Hittites, the Amorites, and theCanaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: 
12:9 Theking of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
12:10 The king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one; 
12:11 Theking of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one; 
12:12 The king ofEglon, one; the king of Gezer, one; 
12:13 The king of Debir, one; theking of Geder, one; 
12:14 The king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad,one; 
12:15 The king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one; 
12:16 The king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one; 
12:17 The king ofTappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one; 
12:18 The king of Aphek, one;the king of Lasharon, one; 
12:19 The king of Madon, one; the king ofHazor, one; 
12:20 The king of Shimronmeron, one; the king of Achshaph,one; 
12:21 The king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one; 
12:22 The king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam of Carmel, one; 
12:23 Theking of Dor in the coast of Dor, one; the king of the nations ofGilgal, one; 
12:24 The king of Tirzah, one: all the kings thirty andone.
13:1 Now Joshua was old and stricken in years; and the LORD said untohim, Thou art old and stricken in years, and there remaineth yet verymuch land to be possessed.
13:2 This is the land that yet remaineth: all the borders of thePhilistines, and all Geshuri, 
13:3 From Sihor, which is before Egypt,even unto the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted to theCanaanite: five lords of the Philistines; the Gazathites, and theAshdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; alsothe Avites: 
13:4 From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, andMearah that is beside the Sidonians unto Aphek, to the borders of theAmorites: 
13:5 And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, towardthe sunrising, from Baalgad under mount Hermon unto the entering intoHamath.
13:6 All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon untoMisrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, them will I drive out frombefore the children of Israel: only divide thou it by lot unto theIsraelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded thee.
13:7 Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto the ninetribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh, 
13:8 With whom the Reubenitesand the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gavethem, beyond Jordan eastward, even as Moses the servant of the LORDgave them; 
13:9 From Aroer, that is upon the bank of the river Arnon,and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain ofMedeba unto Dibon; 
13:10 And all the cities of Sihon king of theAmorites, which reigned in Heshbon, unto the border of the children ofAmmon; 
13:11 And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites andMaachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan unto Salcah; 
13:12 All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtaroth and inEdrei, who remained of the remnant of the giants: for these did Mosessmite, and cast them out.
13:13 Nevertheless the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites,nor the Maachathites: but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwellamong the Israelites until this day.
13:14 Only unto the tribes of Levi he gave none inheritance; thesacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire are theirinheritance, as he said unto them.
13:15 And Moses gave unto the tribe of the children of Reubeninheritance according to their families.
13:16 And their coast was from Aroer, that is on the bank of the riverArnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all theplain by Medeba; 
13:17 Heshbon, and all her cities that are in theplain; Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and Bethbaalmeon, 
13:18 And Jahaza, andKedemoth, and Mephaath, 
13:19 And Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, andZarethshahar in the mount of the valley, 
13:20 And Bethpeor, andAshdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth, 
13:21 And all the cities of theplain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, whichreigned in Heshbon, whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian, Evi,and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, which were dukes of Sihon,dwelling in the country.
13:22 Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children ofIsrael slay with the sword among them that were slain by them.
13:23 And the border of the children of Reuben was Jordan, and theborder thereof. This was the inheritance of the children of Reubenafter their families, the cities and the villages thereof.
13:24 And Moses gave inheritance unto the tribe of Gad, even unto thechildren of Gad according to their families.
13:25 And their coast was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, andhalf the land of the children of Ammon, unto Aroer that is beforeRabbah; 
13:26 And from Heshbon unto Ramathmizpeh, and Betonim; andfrom Mahanaim unto the border of Debir; 
13:27 And in the valley,Betharam, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of thekingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, Jordan and his border, even unto theedge of the sea of Chinnereth on the other side Jordan eastward.
13:28 This is the inheritance of the children of Gad after theirfamilies, the cities, and their villages.
13:29 And Moses gave inheritance unto the half tribe of Manasseh: andthis was the possession of the half tribe of the children of Manassehby their families.
13:30 And their coast was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdomof Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan,threescore cities: 
13:31 And half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei,cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were pertaining unto thechildren of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to the one half of thechildren of Machir by their families.
13:32 These are the countries which Moses did distribute forinheritance in the plains of Moab, on the other side Jordan, byJericho, eastward.
13:33 But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance: theLORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as he said unto them.
14:1 And these are the countries which the children of Israelinherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshuathe son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of thechildren of Israel, distributed for inheritance to them.
14:2 By lot was their inheritance, as the LORD commanded by the handof Moses, for the nine tribes, and for the half tribe.
14:3 For Moses had given the inheritance of two tribes and an halftribe on the other side Jordan: but unto the Levites he gave noneinheritance among them.
14:4 For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim:therefore they gave no part unto the Levites in the land, save citiesto dwell in, with their suburbs for their cattle and for theirsubstance.
14:5 As the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, andthey divided the land.
14:6 Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua in Gilgal: and Calebthe son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said unto him, Thou knowest thething that the LORD said unto Moses the man of God concerning me andthee in Kadeshbarnea.
14:7 Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of the LORD sent mefrom Kadeshbarnea to espy out the land; and I brought him word againas it was in mine heart.
14:8 Nevertheless my brethren that went up with me made the heart ofthe people melt: but I wholly followed the LORD my God.
14:9 And Moses sware on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thyfeet have trodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the LORD my God.
14:10 And now, behold, the LORD hath kept me alive, as he said, theseforty and five years, even since the LORD spake this word unto Moses,while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness: and now, lo,I am this day fourscore and five years old.
14:11 As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Mosessent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war,both to go out, and to come in.
14:12 Now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the LORD spake inthat day; for thou heardest in that day how the Anakims were there,and that the cities were great and fenced: if so be the LORD will bewith me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the LORD said.
14:13 And Joshua blessed him, and gave unto Caleb the son of JephunnehHebron for an inheritance.
14:14 Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son ofJephunneh the Kenezite unto this day, because that he wholly followedthe LORD God of Israel.
14:15 And the name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba; which Arba was agreat man among the Anakims. And the land had rest from war.
15:1 This then was the lot of the tribe of the children of Judah bytheir families; even to the border of Edom the wilderness of Zinsouthward was the uttermost part of the south coast.
15:2 And their south border was from the shore of the salt sea, fromthe bay that looketh southward: 
15:3 And it went out to the south sideto Maalehacrabbim, and passed along to Zin, and ascended up on thesouth side unto Kadeshbarnea, and passed along to Hezron, and went upto Adar, and fetched a compass to Karkaa: 
15:4 From thence it passedtoward Azmon, and went out unto the river of Egypt; and the goings outof that coast were at the sea: this shall be your south coast.
15:5 And the east border was the salt sea, even unto the end ofJordan.And their border in the north quarter was from the bay of the sea atthe uttermost part of Jordan: 
15:6 And the border went up toBethhogla, and passed along by the north of Betharabah; and the borderwent up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben: 
15:7 And the borderwent up toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward,looking toward Gilgal, that is before the going up to Adummim, whichis on the south side of the river: and the border passed toward thewaters of Enshemesh, and the goings out thereof were at Enrogel: 
15:8 And the border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom unto thesouth side of the Jebusite; the same is Jerusalem: and the border wentup to the top of the mountain that lieth before the valley of Hinnomwestward, which is at the end of the valley of the giants northward:
15:9 And the border was drawn from the top of the hill unto thefountain of the water of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of mountEphron; and the border was drawn to Baalah, which is Kirjathjearim:
15:10 And the border compassed from Baalah westward unto mount Seir,and passed along unto the side of mount Jearim, which is Chesalon, onthe north side, and went down to Bethshemesh, and passed on to Timnah:
15:11 And the border went out unto the side of Ekron northward: andthe border was drawn to Shicron, and passed along to mount Baalah, andwent out unto Jabneel; and the goings out of the border were at thesea.
15:12 And the west border was to the great sea, and the coast thereof.This is the coast of the children of Judah round about according totheir families.
15:13 And unto Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a part among thechildren of Judah, according to the commandment of the LORD to Joshua,even the city of Arba the father of Anak, which city is Hebron.
15:14 And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, andAhiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak.
15:15 And he went up thence to the inhabitants of Debir: and the nameof Debir before was Kirjathsepher.
15:16 And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, tohim will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
15:17 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it: andhe gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
15:18 And it came to pass, as she came unto him, that she moved him toask of her father a field: and she lighted off her ass; and Caleb saidunto her, What wouldest thou?  
15:19 Who answered, Give me a blessing;for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water.And he gave her the upper springs, and the nether springs.
15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judahaccording to their families.
15:21 And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Judahtoward the coast of Edom southward were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
15:22 And Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah, 
15:23 And Kedesh, and Hazor,and Ithnan, 
15:24 Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth, 
15:25 And Hazor,Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is Hazor, 
15:26 Amam, andShema, and Moladah, 
15:27 And Hazargaddah, and Heshmon, and Bethpalet,
15:28 And Hazarshual, and Beersheba, and Bizjothjah, 
15:29 Baalah, andIim, and Azem, 
15:30 And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah, 
15:31 AndZiklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah, 
15:32 And Lebaoth, and Shilhim,and Ain, and Rimmon: all the cities are twenty and nine, with theirvillages: 
15:33 And in the valley, Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
15:34 And Zanoah, and Engannim, Tappuah, and Enam, 
15:35 Jarmuth, andAdullam, Socoh, and Azekah, 
15:36 And Sharaim, and Adithaim, andGederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages: 
15:37 Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdalgad, 
15:38 And Dilean, and Mizpeh, andJoktheel, 
15:39 Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon, 
15:40 And Cabbon, andLahmam, and Kithlish, 
15:41 And Gederoth, Bethdagon, and Naamah, andMakkedah; sixteen cities with their villages: 
15:42 Libnah, and Ether,and Ashan, 
15:43 And Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib, 
15:44 And Keilah,and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages: 
15:45 Ekron, with her towns and her villages: 
15:46 From Ekron even unto thesea, all that lay near Ashdod, with their villages: 
15:47 Ashdod withher towns and her villages, Gaza with her towns and her villages, untothe river of Egypt, and the great sea, and the border thereof: 
15:48 And in the mountains, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 
15:49 And Dannah,and Kirjathsannah, which is Debir, 
15:50 And Anab, and Eshtemoh, andAnim, 
15:51 And Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with theirvillages: 
15:52 Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean, 
15:53 And Janum, andBethtappuah, and Aphekah, 
15:54 And Humtah, and Kirjatharba, which isHebron, and Zior; nine cities with their villages: 
15:55 Maon, Carmel,and Ziph, and Juttah, 
15:56 And Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
15:57 Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages: 
15:58 Halhul, Bethzur, and Gedor, 
15:59 And Maarath, and Bethanoth, andEltekon; six cities with their villages: 
15:60 Kirjathbaal, which isKirjathjearim, and Rabbah; two cities with their villages: 
15:61 Inthe wilderness, Betharabah, Middin, and Secacah, 
15:62 And Nibshan,and the city of Salt, and Engedi; six cities with their villages.
15:63 As for the Jebusites the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the childrenof Judah could not drive them out; but the Jebusites dwell with thechildren of Judah at Jerusalem unto this day.
16:1 And the lot of the children of Joseph fell from Jordan byJericho, unto the water of Jericho on the east, to the wilderness thatgoeth up from Jericho throughout mount Bethel, 
16:2 And goeth out fromBethel to Luz, and passeth along unto the borders of Archi to Ataroth,
16:3 And goeth down westward to the coast of Japhleti, unto the coastof Bethhoron the nether, and to Gezer; and the goings out thereof areat the sea.
16:4 So the children of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, took theirinheritance.
16:5 And the border of the children of Ephraim according to theirfamilies was thus: even the border of their inheritance on the eastside was Atarothaddar, unto Bethhoron the upper; 
16:6 And the borderwent out toward the sea to Michmethah on the north side; and theborder went about eastward unto Taanathshiloh, and passed by it on theeast to Janohah; 
16:7 And it went down from Janohah to Ataroth, and toNaarath, and came to Jericho, and went out at Jordan.
16:8 The border went out from Tappuah westward unto the river Kanah;and the goings out thereof were at the sea. This is the inheritance ofthe tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families.
16:9 And the separate cities for the children of Ephraim were amongthe inheritance of the children of Manasseh, all the cities with theirvillages.
16:10 And they drave not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: butthe Canaanites dwell among the Ephraimites unto this day, and serveunder tribute.
17:1 There was also a lot for the tribe of Manasseh; for he was thefirstborn of Joseph; to wit, for Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, thefather of Gilead: because he was a man of war, therefore he had Gileadand Bashan.
17:2 There was also a lot for the rest of the children of Manasseh bytheir families; for the children of Abiezer, and for the children ofHelek, and for the children of Asriel, and for the children ofShechem, and for the children of Hepher, and for the children ofShemida: these were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph bytheir families.
17:3 But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son ofMachir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters: and these arethe names of his daughters, Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, andTirzah.
17:4 And they came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshuathe son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, The LORD commandedMoses to give us an inheritance among our brethren. Thereforeaccording to the commandment of the LORD he gave them an inheritanceamong the brethren of their father.
17:5 And there fell ten portions to Manasseh, beside the land ofGilead and Bashan, which were on the other side Jordan; 
17:6 Becausethe daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons: and therest of Manasseh's sons had the land of Gilead.
17:7 And the coast of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethah, thatlieth before Shechem; and the border went along on the right hand untothe inhabitants of Entappuah.
17:8 Now Manasseh had the land of Tappuah: but Tappuah on the borderof Manasseh belonged to the children of Ephraim; 
17:9 And the coastdescended unto the river Kanah, southward of the river: these citiesof Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh: the coast of Manassehalso was on the north side of the river, and the outgoings of it wereat the sea: 
17:10 Southward it was Ephraim's, and northward it wasManasseh's, and the sea is his border; and they met together in Asheron the north, and in Issachar on the east.
17:11 And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher Bethshean and hertowns, and Ibleam and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and hertowns, and the inhabitants of Endor and her towns, and the inhabitantsof Taanach and her towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and hertowns, even three countries.
17:12 Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitantsof those cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
17:13 Yet it came to pass, when the children of Israel were waxenstrong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterlydrive them out.
17:14 And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hastthou given me but one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am agreat people, forasmuch as the LORD hath blessed me hitherto?  
17:15 And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee upto the wood country, and cut down for thyself there in the land of thePerizzites and of the giants, if mount Ephraim be too narrow for thee.
17:16 And the children of Joseph said, The hill is not enough for us:and all the Canaanites that dwell in the land of the valley havechariots of iron, both they who are of Bethshean and her towns, andthey who are of the valley of Jezreel.
17:17 And Joshua spake unto the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim andto Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people, and hast great power:thou shalt not have one lot only: 
17:18 But the mountain shall bethine; for it is a wood, and thou shalt cut it down: and the outgoingsof it shall be thine: for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, thoughthey have iron chariots, and though they be strong.
18:1 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembledtogether at Shiloh, and set up the tabernacle of the congregationthere. And the land was subdued before them.
18:2 And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes,which had not yet received their inheritance.
18:3 And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, How long are yeslack to go to possess the land, which the LORD God of your fathershath given you?  
18:4 Give out from among you three men for eachtribe: and I will send them, and they shall rise, and go through theland, and describe it according to the inheritance of them; and theyshall come again to me.
18:5 And they shall divide it into seven parts: Judah shall abide intheir coast on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in theircoasts on the north.
18:6 Ye shall therefore describe the land into seven parts, and bringthe description hither to me, that I may cast lots for you here beforethe LORD our God.
18:7 But the Levites have no part among you; for the priesthood of theLORD is their inheritance: and Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe ofManasseh, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan on the east,which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them.
18:8 And the men arose, and went away: and Joshua charged them thatwent to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, anddescribe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots for youbefore the LORD in Shiloh.
18:9 And the men went and passed through the land, and described it bycities into seven parts in a book, and came again to Joshua to thehost at Shiloh.
18:10 And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD: andthere Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel according totheir divisions.
18:11 And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came upaccording to their families: and the coast of their lot came forthbetween the children of Judah and the children of Joseph.
18:12 And their border on the north side was from Jordan; and theborder went up to the side of Jericho on the north side, and went upthrough the mountains westward; and the goings out thereof were at thewilderness of Bethaven.
18:13 And the border went over from thence toward Luz, to the side ofLuz, which is Bethel, southward; and the border descended toAtarothadar, near the hill that lieth on the south side of the netherBethhoron.
18:14 And the border was drawn thence, and compassed the corner of thesea southward, from the hill that lieth before Bethhoron southward;and the goings out thereof were at Kirjathbaal, which isKirjathjearim, a city of the children of Judah: this was the westquarter.
18:15 And the south quarter was from the end of Kirjathjearim, and theborder went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters ofNephtoah: 
18:16 And the border came down to the end of the mountainthat lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, and which is in thevalley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley ofHinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel,
18:17 And was drawn from the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, andwent forth toward Geliloth, which is over against the going up ofAdummim, and descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben, 
18:18 And passed along toward the side over against Arabah northward, andwent down unto Arabah: 
18:19 And the border passed along to the sideof Bethhoglah northward: and the outgoings of the border were at thenorth bay of the salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this was thesouth coast.
18:20 And Jordan was the border of it on the east side. This was theinheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the coasts thereof roundabout, according to their families.
18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjaminaccording to their families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and thevalley of Keziz, 
18:22 And Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, 
18:23 And Avim, and Pharah, and Ophrah, 
18:24 And Chepharhaammonai, andOphni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages: 
18:25 Gibeon, andRamah, and Beeroth, 
18:26 And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, 
18:27 And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, 
18:28 And Zelah, Eleph, andJebusi, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities withtheir villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjaminaccording to their families.
19:1 And the second lot came forth to Simeon, even for the tribe ofthe children of Simeon according to their families: and theirinheritance was within the inheritance of the children of Judah.
19:2 And they had in their inheritance Beersheba, and Sheba, andMoladah, 
19:3 And Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem, 
19:4 And Eltolad,and Bethul, and Hormah, 
19:5 And Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, andHazarsusah, 
19:6 And Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities andtheir villages: 
19:7 Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four citiesand their villages: 
19:8 And all the villages that were round aboutthese cities to Baalathbeer, Ramath of the south. This is theinheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to theirfamilies.
19:9 Out of the portion of the children of Judah was the inheritanceof the children of Simeon: for the part of the children of Judah wastoo much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had theirinheritance within the inheritance of them.
19:10 And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun accordingto their families: and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid:
19:11 And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, andreached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the river that is beforeJokneam; 
19:12 And turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrisingunto the border of Chislothtabor, and then goeth out to Daberath, andgoeth up to Japhia, 
19:13 And from thence passeth on along on the eastto Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to Remmonmethoar toNeah; 
19:14 And the border compasseth it on the north side toHannathon: and the outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel:
19:15 And Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, andBethlehem: twelve cities with their villages.
19:16 This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according totheir families, these cities with their villages.
19:17 And the fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the children ofIssachar according to their families.
19:18 And their border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
19:19 And Haphraim, and Shihon, and Anaharath, 
19:20 And Rabbith, andKishion, and Abez, 
19:21 And Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, andBethpazzez; 
19:22 And the coast reacheth to Tabor, and Shahazimah, andBethshemesh; and the outgoings of their border were at Jordan: sixteencities with their villages.
19:23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issacharaccording to their families, the cities and their villages.
19:24 And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children ofAsher according to their families.
19:25 And their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
19:26 And Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and reacheth to Carmelwestward, and to Shihorlibnath; 
19:27 And turneth toward the sunrisingto Bethdagon, and reacheth to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthaheltoward the north side of Bethemek, and Neiel, and goeth out to Cabulon the left hand, 
19:28 And Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah,even unto great Zidon; 
19:29 And then the coast turneth to Ramah, andto the strong city Tyre; and the coast turneth to Hosah; and theoutgoings thereof are at the sea from the coast to Achzib: 
19:30 Ummahalso, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty and two cities with their villages.
19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asheraccording to their families, these cities with their villages.
19:32 The sixth lot came out to the children of Naphtali, even for thechildren of Naphtali according to their families.
19:33 And their coast was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaanannim, andAdami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakum; and the outgoings thereof wereat Jordan: 
19:34 And then the coast turneth westward to Aznothtabor,and goeth out from thence to Hukkok, and reacheth to Zebulun on thesouth side, and reacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Judah uponJordan toward the sunrising.
19:35 And the fenced cities are Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, andChinnereth, 
19:36 And Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor, 
19:37 And Kedesh,and Edrei, and Enhazor, 
19:38 And Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, andBethanath, and Bethshemesh; nineteen cities with their villages.
19:39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtaliaccording to their families, the cities and their villages.
19:40 And the seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children ofDan according to their families.
19:41 And the coast of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, andIrshemesh, 
19:42 And Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah, 
19:43 AndElon, and Thimnathah, and Ekron, 
19:44 And Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, andBaalath, 
19:45 And Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gathrimmon, 
19:46 AndMejarkon, and Rakkon, with the border before Japho.
19:47 And the coast of the children of Dan went out too little forthem: therefore the children of Dan went up to fight against Leshem,and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and possessedit, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dantheir father.
19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Danaccording to their families, these cities with their villages.
19:49 When they had made an end of dividing the land for inheritanceby their coasts, the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshuathe son of Nun among them: 
19:50 According to the word of the LORDthey gave him the city which he asked, even Timnathserah in mountEphraim: and he built the city, and dwelt therein.
19:51 These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshuathe son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of thechildren of Israel, divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh beforethe LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So theymade an end of dividing the country.
20:1 The LORD also spake unto Joshua, saying, 
20:2 Speak to thechildren of Israel, saying, Appoint out for you cities of refuge,whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses: 
20:3 That the slayerthat killeth any person unawares and unwittingly may flee thither: andthey shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood.
20:4 And when he that doth flee unto one of those cities shall standat the entering of the gate of the city, and shall declare his causein the ears of the elders of that city, they shall take him into thecity unto them, and give him a place, that he may dwell among them.
20:5 And if the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall notdeliver the slayer up into his hand; because he smote his neighbourunwittingly, and hated him not beforetime.
20:6 And he shall dwell in that city, until he stand before thecongregation for judgment, and until the death of the high priest thatshall be in those days: then shall the slayer return, and come untohis own city, and unto his own house, unto the city from whence hefled.
20:7 And they appointed Kedesh in Galilee in mount Naphtali, andShechem in mount Ephraim, and Kirjatharba, which is Hebron, in themountain of Judah.
20:8 And on the other side Jordan by Jericho eastward, they assignedBezer in the wilderness upon the plain out of the tribe of Reuben, andRamoth in Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan out ofthe tribe of Manasseh.
20:9 These were the cities appointed for all the children of Israel,and for the stranger that sojourneth among them, that whosoeverkilleth any person at unawares might flee thither, and not die by thehand of the avenger of blood, until he stood before the congregation.
21:1 Then came near the heads of the fathers of the Levites untoEleazar the priest, and unto Joshua the son of Nun, and unto the headsof the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel; 
21:2 And theyspake unto them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The LORDcommanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with thesuburbs thereof for our cattle.
21:3 And the children of Israel gave unto the Levites out of theirinheritance, at the commandment of the LORD, these cities and theirsuburbs.
21:4 And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and thechildren of Aaron the priest, which were of the Levites, had by lotout of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out ofthe tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.
21:5 And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of thefamilies of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and outof the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
21:6 And the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of thetribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribeof Naphtali, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteencities.
21:7 The children of Merari by their families had out of the tribe ofReuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun,twelve cities.
21:8 And the children of Israel gave by lot unto the Levites thesecities with their suburbs, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
21:9 And they gave out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and outof the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities which are herementioned by name.
21:10 Which the children of Aaron, being of the families of theKohathites, who were of the children of Levi, had: for theirs was thefirst lot.
21:11 And they gave them the city of Arba the father of Anak, whichcity is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with the suburbs thereofround about it.
21:12 But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, gave theyto Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.
21:13 Thus they gave to the children of Aaron the priest Hebron withher suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Libnah withher suburbs, 
21:14 And Jattir with her suburbs, and Eshtemoa with hersuburbs, 
21:15 And Holon with her suburbs, and Debir with her suburbs,
21:16 And Ain with her suburbs, and Juttah with her suburbs, andBethshemesh with her suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes.
21:17 And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with her suburbs, Gebawith her suburbs, 
21:18 Anathoth with her suburbs, and Almon with hersuburbs; four cities.
21:19 All the cities of the children of Aaron, the priests, werethirteen cities with their suburbs.
21:20 And the families of the children of Kohath, the Levites whichremained of the children of Kohath, even they had the cities of theirlot out of the tribe of Ephraim.
21:21 For they gave them Shechem with her suburbs in mount Ephraim, tobe a city of refuge for the slayer; and Gezer with her suburbs, 
21:22 And Kibzaim with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs; fourcities.
21:23 And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbs, Gibbethonwith her suburbs, 
21:24 Aijalon with her suburbs, Gathrimmon with hersuburbs; four cities.
21:25 And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with her suburbs,and Gathrimmon with her suburbs; two cities.
21:26 All the cities were ten with their suburbs for the families ofthe children of Kohath that remained.
21:27 And unto the children of Gershon, of the families of theLevites, out of the other half tribe of Manasseh they gave Golan inBashan with her suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; andBeeshterah with her suburbs; two cities.
21:28 And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with her suburbs,Dabareh with her suburbs, 
21:29 Jarmuth with her suburbs, Engannimwith her suburbs; four cities.
21:30 And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with her suburbs, Abdonwith her suburbs, 
21:31 Helkath with her suburbs, and Rehob with hersuburbs; four cities.
21:32 And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with hersuburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Hammothdor withher suburbs, and Kartan with her suburbs; three cities.
21:33 All the cities of the Gershonites according to their familieswere thirteen cities with their suburbs.
21:34 And unto the families of the children of Merari, the rest of theLevites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with her suburbs, andKartah with her suburbs, 
21:35 Dimnah with her suburbs, Nahalal withher suburbs; four cities.
21:36 And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with her suburbs, andJahazah with her suburbs, 
21:37 Kedemoth with her suburbs, andMephaath with her suburbs; four cities.
21:38 And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs,to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Mahanaim with her suburbs,
21:39 Heshbon with her suburbs, Jazer with her suburbs; four cities inall.
21:40 So all the cities for the children of Merari by their families,which were remaining of the families of the Levites, were by their lottwelve cities.
21:41 All the cities of the Levites within the possession of thechildren of Israel were forty and eight cities with their suburbs.
21:42 These cities were every one with their suburbs round about them:thus were all these cities.
21:43 And the LORD gave unto Israel all the land which he sware togive unto their fathers; and they possessed it, and dwelt therein.
21:44 And the LORD gave them rest round about, according to all thathe sware unto their fathers: and there stood not a man of all theirenemies before them; the LORD delivered all their enemies into theirhand.
21:45 There failed not ought of any good thing which the LORD hadspoken unto the house of Israel; all came to pass.
22:1 Then Joshua called the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the halftribe of Manasseh, 
22:2 And said unto them, Ye have kept all thatMoses the servant of the LORD commanded you, and have obeyed my voicein all that I commanded you: 
22:3 Ye have not left your brethren thesemany days unto this day, but have kept the charge of the commandmentof the LORD your God.
22:4 And now the LORD your God hath given rest unto your brethren, ashe promised them: therefore now return ye, and get you unto yourtents, and unto the land of your possession, which Moses the servantof the LORD gave you on the other side Jordan.
22:5 But take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law, whichMoses the servant of the LORD charged you, to love the LORD your God,and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and tocleave unto him, and to serve him with all your heart and with allyour soul.
22:6 So Joshua blessed them, and sent them away: and they went untotheir tents.
22:7 Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had givenpossession in Bashan: but unto the other half thereof gave Joshuaamong their brethren on this side Jordan westward. And when Joshuasent them away also unto their tents, then he blessed them, 
22:8 Andhe spake unto them, saying, Return with much riches unto your tents,and with very much cattle, with silver, and with gold, and with brass,and with iron, and with very much raiment: divide the spoil of yourenemies with your brethren.
22:9 And the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the halftribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israelout of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go unto the countryof Gilead, to the land of their possession, whereof they werepossessed, according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
22:10 And when they came unto the borders of Jordan, that are in theland of Canaan, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and thehalf tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by Jordan, a great altarto see to.
22:11 And the children of Israel heard say, Behold, the children ofReuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh havebuilt an altar over against the land of Canaan, in the borders ofJordan, at the passage of the children of Israel.
22:12 And when the children of Israel heard of it, the wholecongregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves together atShiloh, to go up to war against them.
22:13 And the children of Israel sent unto the children of Reuben, andto the children of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, into theland of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, 
22:14 And withhim ten princes, of each chief house a prince throughout all thetribes of Israel; and each one was an head of the house of theirfathers among the thousands of Israel.
22:15 And they came unto the children of Reuben, and to the childrenof Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, unto the land of Gilead,and they spake with them, saying, 
22:16 Thus saith the wholecongregation of the LORD, What trespass is this that ye have committedagainst the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following theLORD, in that ye have builded you an altar, that ye might rebel thisday against the LORD?  
22:17 Is the iniquity of Peor too little forus, from which we are not cleansed until this day, although there wasa plague in the congregation of the LORD, 
22:18 But that ye must turnaway this day from following the LORD? and it will be, seeing ye rebelto day against the LORD, that to morrow he will be wroth with thewhole congregation of Israel.
22:19 Notwithstanding, if the land of your possession be unclean, thenpass ye over unto the land of the possession of the LORD, wherein theLORD's tabernacle dwelleth, and take possession among us: but rebelnot against the LORD, nor rebel against us, in building you an altarbeside the altar of the LORD our God.
22:20 Did not Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the accursedthing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? and that manperished not alone in his iniquity.
22:21 Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the halftribe of Manasseh answered, and said unto the heads of the thousandsof Israel, 
22:22 The LORD God of gods, the LORD God of gods, heknoweth, and Israel he shall know; if it be in rebellion, or if intransgression against the LORD, (save us not this day,) 
22:23 That wehave built us an altar to turn from following the LORD, or if to offerthereon burnt offering or meat offering, or if to offer peaceofferings thereon, let the LORD himself require it; 
22:24 And if wehave not rather done it for fear of this thing, saying, In time tocome your children might speak unto our children, saying, What have yeto do with the LORD God of Israel?  
22:25 For the LORD hath madeJordan a border between us and you, ye children of Reuben and childrenof Gad; ye have no part in the LORD: so shall your children make ourchildren cease from fearing the LORD.
22:26 Therefore we said, Let us now prepare to build us an altar, notfor burnt offering, nor for sacrifice: 
22:27 But that it may be awitness between us, and you, and our generations after us, that wemight do the service of the LORD before him with our burnt offerings,and with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings; that yourchildren may not say to our children in time to come, Ye have no partin the LORD.
22:28 Therefore said we, that it shall be, when they should so say tous or to our generations in time to come, that we may say again,Behold the pattern of the altar of the LORD, which our fathers made,not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifices; but it is a witnessbetween us and you.
22:29 God forbid that we should rebel against the LORD, and turn thisday from following the LORD, to build an altar for burnt offerings,for meat offerings, or for sacrifices, beside the altar of the LORDour God that is before his tabernacle.
22:30 And when Phinehas the priest, and the princes of thecongregation and heads of the thousands of Israel which were with him,heard the words that the children of Reuben and the children of Gadand the children of Manasseh spake, it pleased them.
22:31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said unto thechildren of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the children ofManasseh, This day we perceive that the LORD is among us, because yehave not committed this trespass against the LORD: now ye havedelivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the LORD.
22:32 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes,returned from the children of Reuben, and from the children of Gad,out of the land of Gilead, unto the land of Canaan, to the children ofIsrael, and brought them word again.
22:33 And the thing pleased the children of Israel; and the childrenof Israel blessed God, and did not intend to go up against them inbattle, to destroy the land wherein the children of Reuben and Gaddwelt.
22:34 And the children of Reuben and the children of Gad called thealtar Ed: for it shall be a witness between us that the LORD is God.
23:1 And it came to pass a long time after that the LORD had givenrest unto Israel from all their enemies round about, that Joshua waxedold and stricken in age.
23:2 And Joshua called for all Israel, and for their elders, and fortheir heads, and for their judges, and for their officers, and saidunto them, I am old and stricken in age: 
23:3 And ye have seen allthat the LORD your God hath done unto all these nations because ofyou; for the LORD your God is he that hath fought for you.
23:4 Behold, I have divided unto you by lot these nations that remain,to be an inheritance for your tribes, from Jordan, with all thenations that I have cut off, even unto the great sea westward.
23:5 And the LORD your God, he shall expel them from before you, anddrive them from out of your sight; and ye shall possess their land, asthe LORD your God hath promised unto you.
23:6 Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that iswritten in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not asidetherefrom to the right hand or to the left; 
23:7 That ye come notamong these nations, these that remain among you; neither make mentionof the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither servethem, nor bow yourselves unto them: 
23:8 But cleave unto the LORD yourGod, as ye have done unto this day.
23:9 For the LORD hath driven out from before you great nations andstrong: but as for you, no man hath been able to stand before you untothis day.
23:10 One man of you shall chase a thousand: for the LORD your God, heit is that fighteth for you, as he hath promised you.
23:11 Take good heed therefore unto yourselves, that ye love the LORDyour God.
23:12 Else if ye do in any wise go back, and cleave unto the remnantof these nations, even these that remain among you, and shall makemarriages with them, and go in unto them, and they to you: 
23:13 Knowfor a certainty that the LORD your God will no more drive out any ofthese nations from before you; but they shall be snares and traps untoyou, and scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until yeperish from off this good land which the LORD your God hath given you.
23:14 And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: andye know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not one thinghath failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spakeconcerning you; all are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hathfailed thereof.
23:15 Therefore it shall come to pass, that as all good things arecome upon you, which the LORD your God promised you; so shall the LORDbring upon you all evil things, until he have destroyed you from offthis good land which the LORD your God hath given you.
23:16 When ye have transgressed the covenant of the LORD your God,which he commanded you, and have gone and served other gods, and bowedyourselves to them; then shall the anger of the LORD be kindledagainst you, and ye shall perish quickly from off the good land whichhe hath given unto you.
24:1 And Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, andcalled for the elders of Israel, and for their heads, and for theirjudges, and for their officers; and they presented themselves beforeGod.
24:2 And Joshua said unto all the people, Thus saith the LORD God ofIsrael, Your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in old time,even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nachor: and theyserved other gods.
24:3 And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood,and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied hisseed, and gave him Isaac.
24:4 And I gave unto Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I gave unto Esau mountSeir, to possess it; but Jacob and his children went down into Egypt.
24:5 I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according tothat which I did among them: and afterward I brought you out.
24:6 And I brought your fathers out of Egypt: and ye came unto thesea; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots andhorsemen unto the Red sea.
24:7 And when they cried unto the LORD, he put darkness between youand the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and covered them;and your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt: and ye dwelt in thewilderness a long season.
24:8 And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, which dwelt onthe other side Jordan; and they fought with you: and I gave them intoyour hand, that ye might possess their land; and I destroyed them frombefore you.
24:9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and warredagainst Israel, and sent and called Balaam the son of Beor to curseyou: 
24:10 But I would not hearken unto Balaam; therefore he blessedyou still: so I delivered you out of his hand.
24:11 And you went over Jordan, and came unto Jericho: and the men ofJericho fought against you, the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and theCanaanites, and the Hittites, and the Girgashites, the Hivites, andthe Jebusites; and I delivered them into your hand.
24:12 And I sent the hornet before you, which drave them out frombefore you, even the two kings of the Amorites; but not with thysword, nor with thy bow.
24:13 And I have given you a land for which ye did not labour, andcities which ye built not, and ye dwell in them; of the vineyards andoliveyards which ye planted not do ye eat.
24:14 Now therefore fear the LORD, and serve him in sincerity and intruth: and put away the gods which your fathers served on the otherside of the flood, and in Egypt; and serve ye the LORD.
24:15 And if it seem evil unto you to serve the LORD, choose you thisday whom ye will serve; whether the gods which your fathers servedthat were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites,in whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve theLORD.
24:16 And the people answered and said, God forbid that we shouldforsake the LORD, to serve other gods; 
24:17 For the LORD our God, heit is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt,from the house of bondage, and which did those great signs in oursight, and preserved us in all the way wherein we went, and among allthe people through whom we passed: 
24:18 And the LORD drave out frombefore us all the people, even the Amorites which dwelt in the land:therefore will we also serve the LORD; for he is our God.
24:19 And Joshua said unto the people, Ye cannot serve the LORD: forhe is an holy God; he is a jealous God; he will not forgive yourtransgressions nor your sins.
24:20 If ye forsake the LORD, and serve strange gods, then he willturn and do you hurt, and consume you, after that he hath done yougood.
24:21 And the people said unto Joshua, Nay; but we will serve theLORD.
24:22 And Joshua said unto the people, Ye are witnesses againstyourselves that ye have chosen you the LORD, to serve him. And theysaid, We are witnesses.
24:23 Now therefore put away, said he, the strange gods which areamong you, and incline your heart unto the LORD God of Israel.
24:24 And the people said unto Joshua, The LORD our God will we serve,and his voice will we obey.
24:25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day, and set thema statute and an ordinance in Shechem.
24:26 And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God, andtook a great stone, and set it up there under an oak, that was by thesanctuary of the LORD.
24:27 And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall bea witness unto us; for it hath heard all the words of the LORD whichhe spake unto us: it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest yedeny your God.
24:28 So Joshua let the people depart, every man unto his inheritance.
24:29 And it came to pass after these things, that Joshua the son ofNun, the servant of the LORD, died, being an hundred and ten yearsold.
24:30 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance inTimnathserah, which is in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the hillof Gaash.
24:31 And Israel served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all thedays of the elders that overlived Joshua, and which had known all theworks of the LORD, that he had done for Israel.
24:32 And the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought upout of Egypt, buried they in Shechem, in a parcel of ground whichJacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for an hundredpieces of silver: and it became the inheritance of the children ofJoseph.
24:33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died; and they buried him in a hillthat pertained to Phinehas his son, which was given him in mountEphraim.