1:1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hachaliah. And it came to passin the month Chisleu, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan thepalace, 
1:2 That Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he and certain menof Judah; and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, whichwere left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.
1:3 And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivitythere in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wallof Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burnedwith fire.
1:4 And it came to pass, when I heard these words, that I sat down andwept, and mourned certain days, and fasted, and prayed before the Godof heaven, 
1:5 And said, I beseech thee, O LORD God of heaven, thegreat and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them thatlove him and observe his commandments: 
1:6 Let thine ear now beattentive, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer ofthy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for thechildren of Israel thy servants, and confess the sins of the childrenof Israel, which we have sinned against thee: both I and my father'shouse have sinned.
1:7 We have dealt very corruptly against thee, and have not kept thecommandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments, which thoucommandedst thy servant Moses.
1:8 Remember, I beseech thee, the word that thou commandedst thyservant Moses, saying, If ye transgress, I will scatter you abroadamong the nations: 
1:9 But if ye turn unto me, and keep mycommandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto theuttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, andwill bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my namethere.
1:10 Now these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hastredeemed by thy great power, and by thy strong hand.
1:11 O LORD, I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to theprayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who desireto fear thy name: and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, andgrant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king'scupbearer.
2:1 And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year ofArtaxerxes the king, that wine was before him: and I took up the wine,and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been beforetime sad in hispresence.
2:2 Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad,seeing thou art not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heart.Then I was very sore afraid, 
2:3 And said unto the king, Let the kinglive for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city,the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gatesthereof are consumed with fire?  
2:4 Then the king said unto me, Forwhat dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven.
2:5 And I said unto the king, If it please the king, and if thyservant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send meunto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may buildit.
2:6 And the king said unto me, (the queen also sitting by him,) Forhow long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return? So itpleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.
2:7 Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let lettersbe given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey meover till I come into Judah; 
2:8 And a letter unto Asaph the keeper ofthe king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for thegates of the palace which appertained to the house, and for the wallof the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the kinggranted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me.
2:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them theking's letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army andhorsemen with me.
2:10 When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, theAmmonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that there was comea man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.
2:11 So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.
2:12 And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neithertold I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem:neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon.
2:13 And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even beforethe dragon well, and to the dung port, and viewed the walls ofJerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumedwith fire.
2:14 Then I went on to the gate of the fountain, and to the king'spool: but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass.
2:15 Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall,and turned back, and entered by the gate of the valley, and soreturned.
2:16 And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what I did; neitherhad I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to thenobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.
2:17 Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, howJerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire:come, and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more areproach.
2:18 Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me; asalso the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Letus rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this goodwork.
2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, theAmmonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they laughed us to scorn,and despised us, and said, What is this thing that ye do? will yerebel against the king?  
2:20 Then answered I them, and said untothem, The God of heaven, he will prosper us; therefore we his servantswill arise and build: but ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial,in Jerusalem.
3:1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren thepriests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and setup the doors of it; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it,unto the tower of Hananeel.
3:2 And next unto him builded the men of Jericho. And next to thembuilded Zaccur the son of Imri.
3:3 But the fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build, who also laidthe beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof,and the bars thereof.
3:4 And next unto them repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son ofKoz. And next unto them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, theson of Meshezabeel. And next unto them repaired Zadok the son ofBaana.
3:5 And next unto them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles put nottheir necks to the work of their LORD.
3:6 Moreover the old gate repaired Jehoiada the son of Paseah, andMeshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof, and setup the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.
3:7 And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon theMeronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the throne of thegovernor on this side the river.
3:8 Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of thegoldsmiths.Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son of one of theapothecaries, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall.
3:9 And next unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler ofthe half part of Jerusalem.
3:10 And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, evenover against his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the son ofHashabniah.
3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab,repaired the other piece, and the tower of the furnaces.
3:12 And next unto him repaired Shallum the son of Halohesh, the rulerof the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters.
3:13 The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah;they built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, andthe bars thereof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dunggate.
3:14 But the dung gate repaired Malchiah the son of Rechab, the rulerof part of Bethhaccerem; he built it, and set up the doors thereof,the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.
3:15 But the gate of the fountain repaired Shallun the son ofColhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it,and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof,and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king's garden, and unto thestairs that go down from the city of David.
3:16 After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of thehalf part of Bethzur, unto the place over against the sepulchres ofDavid, and to the pool that was made, and unto the house of themighty.
3:17 After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next untohim repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of the half part of Keilah, in hispart.
3:18 After him repaired their brethren, Bavai the son of Henadad, theruler of the half part of Keilah.
3:19 And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler ofMizpah, another piece over against the going up to the armoury at theturning of the wall.
3:20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the otherpiece, from the turning of the wall unto the door of the house ofEliashib the high priest.
3:21 After him repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah the son of Kozanother piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the endof the house of Eliashib.
3:22 And after him repaired the priests, the men of the plain.
3:23 After him repaired Benjamin and Hashub over against their house.After him repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah byhis house.
3:24 After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another piece, fromthe house of Azariah unto the turning of the wall, even unto thecorner.
3:25 Palal the son of Uzai, over against the turning of the wall, andthe tower which lieth out from the king's high house, that was by thecourt of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh.
3:26 Moreover the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel, unto the place overagainst the water gate toward the east, and the tower that lieth out.
3:27 After them the Tekoites repaired another piece, over against thegreat tower that lieth out, even unto the wall of Ophel.
3:28 From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one overagainst his house.
3:29 After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against hishouse.After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper ofthe east gate.
3:30 After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun thesixth son of Zalaph, another piece. After him repaired Meshullam theson of Berechiah over against his chamber.
3:31 After him repaired Malchiah the goldsmith's son unto the place ofthe Nethinims, and of the merchants, over against the gate Miphkad,and to the going up of the corner.
3:32 And between the going up of the corner unto the sheep gaterepaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.
4:1 But it came to pass, that when Sanballat heard that we builded thewall, he was wroth, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.
4:2 And he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria, andsaid, What do these feeble Jews? will they fortify themselves? willthey sacrifice?  will they make an end in a day? will they revive thestones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned?  
4:3 NowTobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which theybuild, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.
4:4 Hear, O our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upontheir own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity: 
4:5 And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted outfrom before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before thebuilders.
4:6 So built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together untothe half thereof: for the people had a mind to work.
4:7 But it came to pass, that when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and theArabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites, heard that the wallsof Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped,then they were very wroth, 
4:8 And conspired all of them together tocome and to fight against Jerusalem, and to hinder it.
4:9 Nevertheless we made our prayer unto our God, and set a watchagainst them day and night, because of them.
4:10 And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens isdecayed, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to buildthe wall.
4:11 And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, tillwe come in the midst among them, and slay them, and cause the work tocease.
4:12 And it came to pass, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came,they said unto us ten times, From all places whence ye shall returnunto us they will be upon you.
4:13 Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on thehigher places, I even set the people after their families with theirswords, their spears, and their bows.
4:14 And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to therulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them:remember the LORD, which is great and terrible, and fight for yourbrethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.
4:15 And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was knownunto us, and God had brought their counsel to nought, that we returnedall of us to the wall, every one unto his work.
4:16 And it came to pass from that time forth, that the half of myservants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both thespears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons; and the rulerswere behind all the house of Judah.
4:17 They which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, withthose that laded, every one with one of his hands wrought in the work,and with the other hand held a weapon.
4:18 For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, andso builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.
4:19 And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest ofthe people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon thewall, one far from another.
4:20 In what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resortye thither unto us: our God shall fight for us.
4:21 So we laboured in the work: and half of them held the spears fromthe rising of the morning till the stars appeared.
4:22 Likewise at the same time said I unto the people, Let every onewith his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may bea guard to us, and labour on the day.
4:23 So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men ofthe guard which followed me, none of us put off our clothes, savingthat every one put them off for washing.
5:1 And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives againsttheir brethren the Jews.
5:2 For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters, aremany: therefore we take up corn for them, that we may eat, and live.
5:3 Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands,vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the dearth.
5:4 There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king'stribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.
5:5 Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children astheir children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and ourdaughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought untobondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for othermen have our lands and vineyards.
5:6 And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.
5:7 Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and therulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother.And I set a great assembly against them.
5:8 And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed ourbrethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen; and will ye evensell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held theytheir peace, and found nothing to answer.
5:9 Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk inthe fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen ourenemies?  
5:10 I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, mightexact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.
5:11 Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, theirvineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth partof the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact ofthem.
5:12 Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing ofthem; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, andtook an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise.
5:13 Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man fromhis house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, eventhus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did according to thispromise.
5:14 Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governorin the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two andthirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and mybrethren have not eaten the bread of the governor.
5:15 But the former governors that had been before me were chargeableunto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside fortyshekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people:but so did not I, because of the fear of God.
5:16 Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought weany land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work.
5:17 Moreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jewsand rulers, beside those that came unto us from among the heathen thatare about us.
5:18 Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and sixchoice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten daysstore of all sorts of wine: yet for all this required not I the breadof the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people.
5:19 Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I havedone for this people.
6:1 Now it came to pass when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem theArabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had builded thewall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though at that timeI had not set up the doors upon the gates;) 
6:2 That Sanballat andGeshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one ofthe villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.
6:3 And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work,so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leaveit, and come down to you?  
6:4 Yet they sent unto me four times afterthis sort; and I answered them after the same manner.
6:5 Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifthtime with an open letter in his hand; 
6:6 Wherein was written, It isreported among the heathen, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and theJews think to rebel: for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thoumayest be their king, according to these words.
6:7 And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee atJerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it bereported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, andlet us take counsel together.
6:8 Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done asthou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.
6:9 For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakenedfrom the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthenmy hands.
6:10 Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiahthe son of Mehetabeel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meettogether in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut thedoors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in thenight will they come to slay thee.
6:11 And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that,being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will notgo in.
6:12 And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent him; but that hepronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat hadhired him.
6:13 Therefore was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, andsin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that theymight reproach me.
6:14 My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to thesetheir works, and on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of theprophets, that would have put me in fear.
6:15 So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the monthElul, in fifty and two days.
6:16 And it came to pass, that when all our enemies heard thereof, andall the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were muchcast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this work waswrought of our God.
6:17 Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters untoTobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them.
6:18 For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was theson in law of Shechaniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan hadtaken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah.
6:19 Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my wordsto him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.
7:1 Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up thedoors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
7:2 That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of thepalace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and fearedGod above many.
7:3 And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be openeduntil the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut thedoors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants ofJerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over againsthis house.
7:4 Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein,and the houses were not builded.
7:5 And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, andthe rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy.And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at thefirst, and found written therein, 
7:6 These are the children of theprovince, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had beencarried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carriedaway, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto hiscity; 
7:7 Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah,Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum,Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel wasthis; 
7:8 The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy andtwo.
7:9 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.
7:10 The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.
7:11 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab,two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.
7:12 The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.
7:13 The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five.
7:14 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.
7:15 The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight.
7:16 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight.
7:17 The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two.
7:18 The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven.
7:19 The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven.
7:20 The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.
7:21 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.
7:22 The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight.
7:23 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four.
7:24 The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.
7:25 The children of Gibeon, ninety and five.
7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore andeight.
7:27 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.
7:28 The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two.
7:29 The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundredforty and three.
7:30 The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.
7:31 The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.
7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three.
7:33 The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.
7:34 The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty andfour.
7:35 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
7:36 The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.
7:37 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty andone.
7:38 The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.
7:39 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua,nine hundred seventy and three.
7:40 The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.
7:41 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.
7:42 The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
7:43 The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of thechildren of Hodevah, seventy and four.
7:44 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight.
7:45 The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, thechildren of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, thechildren of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight.
7:46 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha,the children of Tabbaoth, 
7:47 The children of Keros, the children ofSia, the children of Padon, 
7:48 The children of Lebana, the childrenof Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 
7:49 The children of Hanan, thechildren of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 
7:50 The children ofReaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 
7:51 Thechildren of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah,
7:52 The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children ofNephishesim, 
7:53 The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, thechildren of Harhur, 
7:54 The children of Bazlith, the children ofMehida, the children of Harsha, 
7:55 The children of Barkos, thechildren of Sisera, the children of Tamah, 
7:56 The children ofNeziah, the children of Hatipha.
7:57 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, thechildren of Sophereth, the children of Perida, 
7:58 The children ofJaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 
7:59 Thechildren of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children ofPochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.
7:60 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, werethree hundred ninety and two.
7:61 And these were they which went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha,Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father'shouse, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.
7:62 The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children ofNekoda, six hundred forty and two.
7:63 And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz,the children of Barzillai, which took one of the daughters ofBarzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.
7:64 These sought their register among those that were reckoned bygenealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, putfrom the priesthood.
7:65 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of themost holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
7:66 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand threehundred and threescore, 
7:67 Beside their manservants and theirmaidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirtyand seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men andsinging women.
7:68 Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, twohundred forty and five: 
7:69 Their camels, four hundred thirty andfive: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.
7:70 And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. TheTirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons,five hundred and thirty priests' garments.
7:71 And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of thework twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundredpound of silver.
7:72 And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousanddrams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore andseven priests' garments.
7:73 So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and thesingers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel,dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the childrenof Israel were in their cities.
8:1 And all the people gathered themselves together as one man intothe street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto Ezrathe scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD hadcommanded to Israel.
8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation bothof men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon thefirst day of the seventh month.
8:3 And he read therein before the street that was before the watergate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, andthose that could understand; and the ears of all the people wereattentive unto the book of the law.
8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they hadmade for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, andAnaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; andon his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, andHashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.
8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for hewas above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stoodup: 
8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the peopleanswered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands: and they bowedtheir heads, and worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground.
8:7 Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai,Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and theLevites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stoodin their place.
8:8 So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gavethe sense, and caused them to understand the reading.
8:9 And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest thescribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all thepeople, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor weep.For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.
8:10 Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink thesweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: forthis day is holy unto our LORD: neither be ye sorry; for the joy ofthe LORD is your strength.
8:11 So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace,for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved.
8:12 And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and tosend portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understoodthe words that were declared unto them.
8:13 And on the second day were gathered together the chief of thefathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra thescribe, even to understand the words of the law.
8:14 And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded byMoses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feastof the seventh month: 
8:15 And that they should publish and proclaimin all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto themount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtlebranches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to makebooths, as it is written.
8:16 So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselvesbooths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, andin the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the watergate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim.
8:17 And all the congregation of them that were come again out of thecaptivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days ofJeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israeldone so. And there was very great gladness.
8:18 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read inthe book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and onthe eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner.
9:1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children ofIsrael were assembled with fasting, and with sackclothes, and earthupon them.
9:2 And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers,and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of theirfathers.
9:3 And they stood up in their place, and read in the book of the lawof the LORD their God one fourth part of the day; and another fourthpart they confessed, and worshipped the LORD their God.
9:4 Then stood up upon the stairs, of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani,Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and criedwith a loud voice unto the LORD their God.
9:5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabniah,Sherebiah, Hodijah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and blessthe LORD your God for ever and ever: and blessed be thy glorious name,which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
9:6 Thou, even thou, art LORD alone; thou hast made heaven, the heavenof heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all things that aretherein, the seas, and all that is therein, and thou preservest themall; and the host of heaven worshippeth thee.
9:7 Thou art the LORD the God, who didst choose Abram, and broughtesthim forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gavest him the name ofAbraham; 
9:8 And foundest his heart faithful before thee, and madest acovenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites,the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites, and theGirgashites, to give it, I say, to his seed, and hast performed thywords; for thou art righteous: 
9:9 And didst see the affliction of ourfathers in Egypt, and heardest their cry by the Red sea; 
9:10 Andshewedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, andon all the people of his land: for thou knewest that they dealtproudly against them. So didst thou get thee a name, as it is thisday.
9:11 And thou didst divide the sea before them, so that they wentthrough the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their persecutorsthou threwest into the deeps, as a stone into the mighty waters.
9:12 Moreover thou leddest them in the day by a cloudy pillar; and inthe night by a pillar of fire, to give them light in the way whereinthey should go.
9:13 Thou camest down also upon mount Sinai, and spakest with themfrom heaven, and gavest them right judgments, and true laws, goodstatutes and commandments: 
9:14 And madest known unto them thy holysabbath, and commandedst them precepts, statutes, and laws, by thehand of Moses thy servant: 
9:15 And gavest them bread from heaven fortheir hunger, and broughtest forth water for them out of the rock fortheir thirst, and promisedst them that they should go in to possessthe land which thou hadst sworn to give them.
9:16 But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their necks,and hearkened not to thy commandments, 
9:17 And refused to obey,neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them; buthardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain toreturn to their bondage: but thou art a God ready to pardon, graciousand merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookestthem not.
9:18 Yea, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, This is thyGod that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought greatprovocations; 
9:19 Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsookest themnot in the wilderness: the pillar of the cloud departed not from themby day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night,to shew them light, and the way wherein they should go.
9:20 Thou gavest also thy good spirit to instruct them, andwithheldest not thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water fortheir thirst.
9:21 Yea, forty years didst thou sustain them in the wilderness, sothat they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feetswelled not.
9:22 Moreover thou gavest them kingdoms and nations, and didst dividethem into corners: so they possessed the land of Sihon, and the landof the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.
9:23 Their children also multipliedst thou as the stars of heaven, andbroughtest them into the land, concerning which thou hadst promised totheir fathers, that they should go in to possess it.
9:24 So the children went in and possessed the land, and thousubduedst before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, andgavest them into their hands, with their kings, and the people of theland, that they might do with them as they would.
9:25 And they took strong cities, and a fat land, and possessed housesfull of all goods, wells digged, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruittrees in abundance: so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat,and delighted themselves in thy great goodness.
9:26 Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against thee,and cast thy law behind their backs, and slew thy prophets whichtestified against them to turn them to thee, and they wrought greatprovocations.
9:27 Therefore thou deliveredst them into the hand of their enemies,who vexed them: and in the time of their trouble, when they cried untothee, thou heardest them from heaven; and according to thy manifoldmercies thou gavest them saviours, who saved them out of the hand oftheir enemies.
9:28 But after they had rest, they did evil again before thee:therefore leftest thou them in the land of their enemies, so that theyhad the dominion over them: yet when they returned, and cried untothee, thou heardest them from heaven; and many times didst thoudeliver them according to thy mercies; 
9:29 And testifiedst againstthem, that thou mightest bring them again unto thy law: yet they dealtproudly, and hearkened not unto thy commandments, but sinned againstthy judgments, (which if a man do, he shall live in them;) andwithdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear.
9:30 Yet many years didst thou forbear them, and testifiedst againstthem by thy spirit in thy prophets: yet would they not give ear:therefore gavest thou them into the hand of the people of the lands.
9:31 Nevertheless for thy great mercies' sake thou didst not utterlyconsume them, nor forsake them; for thou art a gracious and mercifulGod.
9:32 Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the terribleGod, who keepest covenant and mercy, let not all the trouble seemlittle before thee, that hath come upon us, on our kings, on ourprinces, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers,and on all thy people, since the time of the kings of Assyria untothis day.
9:33 Howbeit thou art just in all that is brought upon us; for thouhast done right, but we have done wickedly: 
9:34 Neither have ourkings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept thy law, norhearkened unto thy commandments and thy testimonies, wherewith thoudidst testify against them.
9:35 For they have not served thee in their kingdom, and in thy greatgoodness that thou gavest them, and in the large and fat land whichthou gavest before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.
9:36 Behold, we are servants this day, and for the land that thougavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof,behold, we are servants in it: 
9:37 And it yieldeth much increase untothe kings whom thou hast set over us because of our sins: also theyhave dominion over our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure,and we are in great distress.
9:38 And because of all this we make a sure covenant, and write it;and our princes, Levites, and priests, seal unto it.
10:1 Now those that sealed were, Nehemiah, the Tirshatha, the son ofHachaliah, and Zidkijah, 
10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah, 
10:3 Pashur,Amariah, Malchijah, 
10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch, 
10:5 Harim,Meremoth, Obadiah, 
10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch, 
10:7 Meshullam,Abijah, Mijamin, 
10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these were thepriests.
10:9 And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of thesons of Henadad, Kadmiel; 
10:10 And their brethren, Shebaniah,Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan, 
10:11 Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah, 
10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, 
10:13 Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.
10:14 The chief of the people; Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zatthu, Bani,
10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, 
10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin, 
10:17 Ater,Hizkijah, Azzur, 
10:18 Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai, 
10:19 Hariph, Anathoth,Nebai, 
10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, 
10:21 Meshezabeel, Zadok,Jaddua, 
10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, 
10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
10:24 Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek, 
10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
10:26 And Ahijah, Hanan, Anan, 
10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
10:28 And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, theporters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all they that had separatedthemselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, theirwives, their sons, and their daughters, every one having knowledge,and having understanding; 
10:29 They clave to their brethren, theirnobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God'slaw, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe anddo all the commandments of the LORD our Lord, and his judgments andhis statutes; 
10:30 And that we would not give our daughters unto thepeople of the land, not take their daughters for our sons: 
10:31 Andif the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbathday to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the sabbath, or onthe holy day: and that we would leave the seventh year, and theexaction of every debt.
10:32 Also we made ordinances for us, to charge ourselves yearly withthe third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;
10:33 For the shewbread, and for the continual meat offering, and forthe continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, forthe set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings tomake an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of ourGod.
10:34 And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and thepeople, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God,after the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, toburn upon the altar of the LORD our God, as it is written in the law:
10:35 And to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruitsof all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the house of the LORD:
10:36 Also the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, as it iswritten in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks,to bring to the house of our God, unto the priests that minister inthe house of our God: 
10:37 And that we should bring the firstfruitsof our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees,of wine and of oil, unto the priests, to the chambers of the house ofour God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the sameLevites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.
10:38 And the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, whenthe Levites take tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe ofthe tithes unto the house of our God, to the chambers, into thetreasure house.
10:39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bringthe offering of the corn, of the new wine, and the oil, unto thechambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests thatminister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will not forsakethe house of our God.
11:1 And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: the rest of thepeople also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem theholy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities.
11:2 And the people blessed all the men, that willingly offeredthemselves to dwell at Jerusalem.
11:3 Now these are the chief of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem:but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in theircities, to wit, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and theNethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants.
11:4 And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and ofthe children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son ofUzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son ofShephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the children of Perez; 
11:5 AndMaaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah,the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the sonof Shiloni.
11:6 All the sons of Perez that dwelt at Jerusalem were four hundredthreescore and eight valiant men.
11:7 And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam,the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son ofMaaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah.
11:8 And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.
11:9 And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the sonof Senuah was second over the city.
11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin.
11:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son ofZadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of thehouse of God.
11:12 And their brethren that did the work of the house were eighthundred twenty and two: and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son ofPelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur,the son of Malchiah.
11:13 And his brethren, chief of the fathers, two hundred forty andtwo: and Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son ofMeshillemoth, the son of Immer, 
11:14 And their brethren, mighty menof valour, an hundred twenty and eight: and their overseer wasZabdiel, the son of one of the great men.
11:15 Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son ofAzrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; 
11:16 And Shabbethaiand Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the oversight of theoutward business of the house of God.
11:17 And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son ofAsaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer: andBakbukiah the second among his brethren, and Abda the son of Shammua,the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
11:18 All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred fourscore andfour.
11:19 Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren thatkept the gates, were an hundred seventy and two.
11:20 And the residue of Israel, of the priests, and the Levites, werein all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.
11:21 But the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa were overthe Nethinims.
11:22 The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the sonof Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha.Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the houseof God.
11:23 For it was the king's commandment concerning them, that acertain portion should be for the singers, due for every day.
11:24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zerahthe son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning thepeople.
11:25 And for the villages, with their fields, some of the children ofJudah dwelt at Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon,and in the villages thereof, and at Jekabzeel, and in the villagesthereof, 
11:26 And at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethphelet, 
11:27 And at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba, and in the villages thereof,
11:28 And at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in the villages thereof,
11:29 And at Enrimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth, 
11:30 Zanoah,Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish, and the fields thereof, atAzekah, and in the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Beershebaunto the valley of Hinnom.
11:31 The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelt at Michmash, andAija, and Bethel, and in their villages.
11:32 And at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 
11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 
11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley ofcraftsmen.
11:36 And of the Levites were divisions in Judah, and in Benjamin.
12:1 Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up withZerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, 
12:3 Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, 
12:4 Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah, 
12:5 Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah, 
12:6 Shemaiah,and Joiarib, Jedaiah, 
12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These werethe chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.
12:8 Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah,and Mattaniah, which was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren.
12:9 Also Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were over against themin the watches.
12:10 And Jeshua begat Joiakim, Joiakim also begat Eliashib, andEliashib begat Joiada, 
12:11 And Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathanbegat Jaddua.
12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the chief of thefathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah; 
12:13 Of Ezra,Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan; 
12:14 Of Melicu, Jonathan; ofShebaniah, Joseph; 
12:15 Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai; 
12:16 OfIddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam; 
12:17 Of Abijah, Zichri; ofMiniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai: 
12:18 Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah,Jehonathan; 
12:19 And of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 
12:20 OfSallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber; 
12:21 Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; ofJedaiah, Nethaneel.
12:22 The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, andJaddua, were recorded chief of the fathers: also the priests, to thereign of Darius the Persian.
12:23 The sons of Levi, the chief of the fathers, were written in thebook of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son ofEliashib.
12:24 And the chief of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshuathe son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praiseand to give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man ofGod, ward over against ward.
12:25 Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub,were porters keeping the ward at the thresholds of the gates.
12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son ofJozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra thepriest, the scribe.
12:27 And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought theLevites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keepthe dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and withsinging, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps.
12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, bothout of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villagesof Netophathi; 
12:29 Also from the house of Gilgal, and out of thefields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villagesround about Jerusalem.
12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, andpurified the people, and the gates, and the wall.
12:31 Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, andappointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof onewent on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate: 
12:32 Andafter them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, 
12:33 AndAzariah, Ezra, and Meshullam, 
12:34 Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah,and Jeremiah, 
12:35 And certain of the priests' sons with trumpets;namely, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son ofMattaniah, the son of Michaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph:
12:36 And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarael, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai,Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of Davidthe man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them.
12:37 And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they wentup by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall,above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward.
12:38 And the other company of them that gave thanks went over againstthem, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall, frombeyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall; 
12:39 Andfrom above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above thefish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even untothe sheep gate: and they stood still in the prison gate.
12:40 So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the houseof God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me: 
12:41 And thepriests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah,and Hananiah, with trumpets; 
12:42 And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, andEleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer.And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.
12:43 Also that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced: forGod had made them rejoice with great joy: the wives also and thechildren rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afaroff.
12:44 And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for thetreasures, for the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes,to gather into them out of the fields of the cities the portions ofthe law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for thepriests and for the Levites that waited.
12:45 And both the singers and the porters kept the ward of their God,and the ward of the purification, according to the commandment ofDavid, and of Solomon his son.
12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph of old there were chief ofthe singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God.
12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days ofNehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, every dayhis portion: and they sanctified holy things unto the Levites; and theLevites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.
13:1 On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of thepeople; and therein was found written, that the Ammonite and theMoabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever; 
13:2 Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water,but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: howbeit ourGod turned the curse into a blessing.
13:3 Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that theyseparated from Israel all the mixed multitude.
13:4 And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of thechamber of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah: 
13:5 And hehad prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid themeat offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes ofthe corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be givento the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the offerings ofthe priests.
13:6 But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem: for in the two andthirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, andafter certain days obtained I leave of the king: 
13:7 And I came toJerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah, inpreparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.
13:8 And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the householdstuff to Tobiah out of the chamber.
13:9 Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thitherbrought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meatoffering and the frankincense.
13:10 And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not beengiven them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, werefled every one to his field.
13:11 Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house ofGod forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in theirplace.
13:12 Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wineand the oil unto the treasuries.
13:13 And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest,and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to themwas Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they werecounted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto theirbrethren.
13:14 Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my gooddeeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the officesthereof.
13:15 In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on thesabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses; as also wine,grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought intoJerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them in the daywherein they sold victuals.
13:16 There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, andall manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children ofJudah, and in Jerusalem.
13:17 Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them,What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day?
13:18 Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all thisevil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israelby profaning the sabbath.
13:19 And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began tobe dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut,and charged that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: andsome of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden bebrought in on the sabbath day.
13:20 So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged withoutJerusalem once or twice.
13:21 Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge yeabout the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From thattime forth came they no more on the sabbath.
13:22 And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves,and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbathday.Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according tothe greatness of thy mercy.
13:23 In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod,of Ammon, and of Moab: 
13:24 And their children spake half in thespeech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews' language, butaccording to the language of each people.
13:25 And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain ofthem, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying,Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take theirdaughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.
13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet amongmany nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God,and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him didoutlandish women cause to sin.
13:27 Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this great evil, totransgress against our God in marrying strange wives?  
13:28 And oneof the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son inlaw to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.
13:29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled thepriesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.
13:30 Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wardsof the priests and the Levites, every one in his business; 
13:31 Andfor the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits.Remember me, O my God, for good.