1:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in thetabernacle of the congregation, on the first day of the second month,in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt,saying, 
1:2 Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children ofIsrael, after their families, by the house of their fathers, with thenumber of their names, every male by their polls; 
1:3 From twentyyears old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel:thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies.
1:4 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one headof the house of his fathers.
1:5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you: ofthe tribe of Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur.
1:6 Of Simeon; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
1:7 Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
1:8 Of Issachar; Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
1:9 Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon.
1:10 Of the children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son ofAmmihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
1:11 Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of Gideoni.
1:12 Of Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
1:13 Of Asher; Pagiel the son of Ocran.
1:14 Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
1:15 Of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan.
1:16 These were the renowned of the congregation, princes of thetribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel.
1:17 And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by theirnames: 
1:18 And they assembled all the congregation together on thefirst day of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees aftertheir families, by the house of their fathers, according to the numberof the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.
1:19 As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in thewilderness of Sinai.
1:20 And the children of Reuben, Israel's eldest son, by theirgenerations, after their families, by the house of their fathers,according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male fromtwenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
1:21 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Reuben,were forty and six thousand and five hundred.
1:22 Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered ofthem, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every malefrom twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth towar; 
1:23 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe ofSimeon, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.
1:24 Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:25 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Gad, were forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty.
1:26 Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:27 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.
1:28 Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:29 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Issachar, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.
1:30 Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:31 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.
1:32 Of the children of Joseph, namely, of the children of Ephraim, bytheir generations, after their families, by the house of theirfathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years oldand upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
1:33 Those thatwere numbered of them, even of the tribe of Ephraim, were fortythousand and five hundred.
1:34 Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:35 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Manasseh, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred.
1:36 Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:37 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Benjamin, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred.
1:38 Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:39 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Dan, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.
1:40 Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number ofthe names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to goforth to war; 
1:41 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribeof Asher, were forty and one thousand and five hundred.
1:42 Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, aftertheir families, by the house of their fathers, according to the numberof the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able togo forth to war; 
1:43 Those that were numbered of them, even of thetribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
1:44 These are those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaronnumbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: each one wasfor the house of his fathers.
1:45 So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel,by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, allthat were able to go forth to war in Israel; 
1:46 Even all they thatwere numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and fivehundred and fifty.
1:47 But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were notnumbered among them.
1:48 For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying, 
1:49 Only thou shaltnot number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among thechildren of Israel: 
1:50 But thou shalt appoint the Levites over thetabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and overall things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and allthe vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encampround about the tabernacle.
1:51 And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall takeit down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shallset it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.
1:52 And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man byhis own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout theirhosts.
1:53 But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle oftestimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of thechildren of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of thetabernacle of testimony.
1:54 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORDcommanded Moses, so did they.
2:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
2:2 Everyman of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard, withthe ensign of their father's house: far off about the tabernacle ofthe congregation shall they pitch.
2:3 And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they ofthe standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: andNahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the children ofJudah.
2:4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, werethreescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.
2:5 And those that do pitch next unto him shall be the tribe ofIssachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar shall be captain of thechildren of Issachar.
2:6 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty andfour thousand and four hundred.
2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon shall becaptain of the children of Zebulun.
2:8 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty andseven thousand and four hundred.
2:9 All that were numbered in the camp of Judah were an hundredthousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred,throughout their armies. These shall first set forth.
2:10 On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reubenaccording to their armies: and the captain of the children of Reubenshall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.
2:11 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fortyand six thousand and five hundred.
2:12 And those which pitch by him shall be the tribe of Simeon: andthe captain of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son ofZurishaddai.
2:13 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fiftyand nine thousand and three hundred.
2:14 Then the tribe of Gad: and the captain of the sons of Gad shallbe Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
2:15 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fortyand five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
2:16 All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben were an hundredthousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty,throughout their armies. And they shall set forth in the second rank.
2:17 Then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forward withthe camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, soshall they set forward, every man in his place by their standards.
2:18 On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraimaccording to their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraimshall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.
2:19 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fortythousand and five hundred.
2:20 And by him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the captain of thechildren of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
2:21 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirtyand two thousand and two hundred.
2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the captain of the sons ofBenjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.
2:23 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirtyand five thousand and four hundred.
2:24 All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were an hundredthousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies.And they shall go forward in the third rank.
2:25 The standard of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side bytheir armies: and the captain of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezerthe son of Ammishaddai.
2:26 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, werethreescore and two thousand and seven hundred.
2:27 And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and thecaptain of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.
2:28 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fortyand one thousand and five hundred.
2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children ofNaphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.
2:30 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fiftyand three thousand and four hundred.
2:31 All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan were an hundredthousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall gohindmost with their standards.
2:32 These are those which were numbered of the children of Israel bythe house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the campsthroughout their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousandand five hundred and fifty.
2:33 But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel;as the LORD commanded Moses.
2:34 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORDcommanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they setforward, every one after their families, according to the house oftheir fathers.
3:1 These also are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day thatthe LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.
3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the firstborn,and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests which wereanointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office.
3:4 And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offeredstrange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they hadno children: and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's officein the sight of Aaron their father.
3:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
3:6 Bring the tribe of Levinear, and present them before Aaron the priest, that they may ministerunto him.
3:7 And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the wholecongregation before the tabernacle of the congregation, to do theservice of the tabernacle.
3:8 And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle of thecongregation, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do theservice of the tabernacle.
3:9 And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: theyare wholly given unto him out of the children of Israel.
3:10 And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall wait ontheir priest's office: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be putto death.
3:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
3:12 And I, behold, I havetaken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all thefirstborn that openeth the matrix among the children of Israel:therefore the Levites shall be mine; 
3:13 Because all the firstbornare mine; for on the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land ofEgypt I hallowed unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both man andbeast: mine shall they be: I am the LORD.
3:14 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
3:15 Number the children of Levi after the house of their fathers, bytheir families: every male from a month old and upward shalt thounumber them.
3:16 And Moses numbered them according to the word of the LORD, as hewas commanded.
3:17 And these were the sons of Levi by their names; Gershon, andKohath, and Merari.
3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families;Libni, and Shimei.
3:19 And the sons of Kohath by their families; Amram, and Izehar,Hebron, and Uzziel.
3:20 And the sons of Merari by their families; Mahli, and Mushi. Theseare the families of the Levites according to the house of theirfathers.
3:21 Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of theShimites: these are the families of the Gershonites.
3:22 Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of allthe males, from a month old and upward, even those that were numberedof them were seven thousand and five hundred.
3:23 The families of the Gershonites shall pitch behind the tabernaclewestward.
3:24 And the chief of the house of the father of the Gershonites shallbe Eliasaph the son of Lael.
3:25 And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of thecongregation shall be the tabernacle, and the tent, the coveringthereof, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of thecongregation, 
3:26 And the hangings of the court, and the curtain forthe door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and by the altarround about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.
3:27 And of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family ofthe Izeharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family ofthe Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.
3:28 In the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, wereeight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.
3:29 The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of thetabernacle southward.
3:30 And the chief of the house of the father of the families of theKohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.
3:31 And their charge shall be the ark, and the table, and thecandlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuarywherewith they minister, and the hanging, and all the service thereof.
3:32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be chief over thechief of the Levites, and have the oversight of them that keep thecharge of the sanctuary.
3:33 Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of theMushites: these are the families of Merari.
3:34 And those that were numbered of them, according to the number ofall the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand and twohundred.
3:35 And the chief of the house of the father of the families ofMerari was Zuriel the son of Abihail: these shall pitch on the side ofthe tabernacle northward.
3:36 And under the custody and charge of the sons of Merari shall bethe boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillarsthereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the vessels thereof, and allthat serveth thereto, 
3:37 And the pillars of the court round about,and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords.
3:38 But those that encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, evenbefore the tabernacle of the congregation eastward, shall be Moses,and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for thecharge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that cometh nighshall be put to death.
3:39 All that were numbered of the Levites, which Moses and Aaronnumbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their families,all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty and twothousand.
3:40 And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of themales of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and takethe number of their names.
3:41 And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am the LORD) instead ofall the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the cattle of theLevites instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the childrenof Israel.
3:42 And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstbornamong the children of Israel.
3:43 And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a monthold and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty andtwo thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen.
3:44 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
3:45 Take the Levitesinstead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and thecattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shallbe mine: I am the LORD.
3:46 And for those that are to be redeemed of the two hundred andthreescore and thirteen of the firstborn of the children of Israel,which are more than the Levites; 
3:47 Thou shalt even take fiveshekels apiece by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary shaltthou take them: (the shekel is twenty gerahs:) 
3:48 And thou shaltgive the money, wherewith the odd number of them is to be redeemed,unto Aaron and to his sons.
3:49 And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over andabove them that were redeemed by the Levites: 
3:50 Of the firstborn ofthe children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three hundred andthreescore and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 
3:51 And Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and tohis sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commandedMoses.
4:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
4:2 Take thesum of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers, 
4:3 From thirty years old andupward even until fifty years old, all that enter into the host, to dothe work in the tabernacle of the congregation.
4:4 This shall be the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacleof the congregation, about the most holy things: 
4:5 And when the campsetteth forward, Aaron shall come, and his sons, and they shall takedown the covering vail, and cover the ark of testimony with it: 
4:6 And shall put thereon the covering of badgers' skins, and shall spreadover it a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put in the staves thereof.
4:7 And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue,and put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and coversto cover withal: and the continual bread shall be thereon: 
4:8 Andthey shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet, and cover the samewith a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put in the stavesthereof.
4:9 And they shall take a cloth of blue, and cover the candlestick ofthe light, and his lamps, and his tongs, and his snuffdishes, and allthe oil vessels thereof, wherewith they minister unto it: 
4:10 Andthey shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering ofbadgers' skins, and shall put it upon a bar.
4:11 And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue, andcover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put to thestaves thereof: 
4:12 And they shall take all the instruments ofministry, wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in acloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, andshall put them on a bar: 
4:13 And they shall take away the ashes fromthe altar, and spread a purple cloth thereon: 
4:14 And they shall putupon it all the vessels thereof, wherewith they minister about it,even the censers, the fleshhooks, and the shovels, and the basons, allthe vessels of the altar; and they shall spread upon it a covering ofbadgers' skins, and put to the staves of it.
4:15 And when Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering thesanctuary, and all the vessels of the sanctuary, as the camp is to setforward; after that, the sons of Kohath shall come to bear it: butthey shall not touch any holy thing, lest they die. These things arethe burden of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of thecongregation.
4:16 And to the office of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priestpertaineth the oil for the light, and the sweet incense, and the dailymeat offering, and the anointing oil, and the oversight of all thetabernacle, and of all that therein is, in the sanctuary, and in thevessels thereof.
4:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron saying, 
4:18 Cut yenot off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among theLevites: 
4:19 But thus do unto them, that they may live, and not die,when they approach unto the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shallgo in, and appoint them every one to his service and to his burden:
4:20 But they shall not go in to see when the holy things are covered,lest they die.
4:21 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
4:22 Take also the sum ofthe sons of Gershon, throughout the houses of their fathers, by theirfamilies; 
4:23 From thirty years old and upward until fifty years oldshalt thou number them; all that enter in to perform the service, todo the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.
4:24 This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, to serve,and for burdens: 
4:25 And they shall bear the curtains of thetabernacle, and the tabernacle of the congregation, his covering, andthe covering of the badgers' skins that is above upon it, and thehanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, 
4:26 Andthe hangings of the court, and the hanging for the door of the gate ofthe court, which is by the tabernacle and by the altar round about,and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, and allthat is made for them: so shall they serve.
4:27 At the appointment of Aaron and his sons shall be all the serviceof the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burdens, and in all theirservice: and ye shall appoint unto them in charge all their burdens.
4:28 This is the service of the families of the sons of Gershon in thetabernacle of the congregation: and their charge shall be under thehand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
4:29 As for the sons of Merari, thou shalt number them after theirfamilies, by the house of their fathers; 
4:30 From thirty years oldand upward even unto fifty years old shalt thou number them, every onethat entereth into the service, to do the work of the tabernacle ofthe congregation.
4:31 And this is the charge of their burden, according to all theirservice in the tabernacle of the congregation; the boards of thetabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and socketsthereof, 
4:32 And the pillars of the court round about, and theirsockets, and their pins, and their cords, with all their instruments,and with all their service: and by name ye shall reckon theinstruments of the charge of their burden.
4:33 This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari,according to all their service, in the tabernacle of the congregation,under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the chief of the congregation numberedthe sons of the Kohathites after their families, and after the houseof their fathers, 
4:35 From thirty years old and upward even untofifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for thework in the tabernacle of the congregation: 
4:36 And those that werenumbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred andfifty.
4:37 These were they that were numbered of the families of theKohathites, all that might do service in the tabernacle of thecongregation, which Moses and Aaron did number according to thecommandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
4:38 And those that were numbered of the sons of Gershon, throughouttheir families, and by the house of their fathers, 
4:39 From thirtyyears old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one thatentereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of thecongregation, 
4:40 Even those that were numbered of them, throughouttheir families, by the house of their fathers, were two thousand andsix hundred and thirty.
4:41 These are they that were numbered of the families of the sons ofGershon, of all that might do service in the tabernacle of thecongregation, whom Moses and Aaron did number according to thecommandment of the LORD.
4:42 And those that were numbered of the families of the sons ofMerari, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers, 
4:43 From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every onethat entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of thecongregation, 
4:44 Even those that were numbered of them after theirfamilies, were three thousand and two hundred.
4:45 These be those that were numbered of the families of the sons ofMerari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of theLORD by the hand of Moses.
4:46 All those that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaronand the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, and after thehouse of their fathers, 
4:47 From thirty years old and upward evenunto fifty years old, every one that came to do the service of theministry, and the service of the burden in the tabernacle of thecongregation.
4:48 Even those that were numbered of them, were eight thousand andfive hundred and fourscore, 
4:49 According to the commandment of theLORD they were numbered by the hand of Moses, every one according tohis service, and according to his burden: thus were they numbered ofhim, as the LORD commanded Moses.
5:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
5:2 Command the children ofIsrael, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one thathath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the dead: 
5:3 Both male andfemale shall ye put out, without the camp shall ye put them; that theydefile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell.
5:4 And the children of Israel did so, and put them out without thecamp: as the LORD spake unto Moses, so did the children of Israel.
5:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
5:6 Speak unto the childrenof Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit,to do a trespass against the LORD, and that person be guilty; 
5:7 Thenthey shall confess their sin which they have done: and he shallrecompense his trespass with the principal thereof, and add unto itthe fifth part thereof, and give it unto him against whom he hathtrespassed.
5:8 But if the man have no kinsman to recompense the trespass unto,let the trespass be recompensed unto the LORD, even to the priest;beside the ram of the atonement, whereby an atonement shall be madefor him.
5:9 And every offering of all the holy things of the children ofIsrael, which they bring unto the priest, shall be his.
5:10 And every man's hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any mangiveth the priest, it shall be his.
5:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
5:12 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and say unto them, If any man's wife go aside, andcommit a trespass against him, 
5:13 And a man lie with her carnally,and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and shebe defiled, and there be no witness against her, neither she be takenwith the manner; 
5:14 And the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and hebe jealous of his wife, and she be defiled: or if the spirit ofjealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be notdefiled: 
5:15 Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priest, andhe shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah ofbarley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincensethereon; for it is an offering of jealousy, an offering of memorial,bringing iniquity to remembrance.
5:16 And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before the LORD:
5:17 And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and ofthe dust that is in the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall take,and put it into the water: 
5:18 And the priest shall set the womanbefore the LORD, and uncover the woman's head, and put the offering ofmemorial in her hands, which is the jealousy offering: and the priestshall have in his hand the bitter water that causeth the curse: 
5:19 And the priest shall charge her by an oath, and say unto the woman, Ifno man have lain with thee, and if thou hast not gone aside touncleanness with another instead of thy husband, be thou free fromthis bitter water that causeth the curse: 
5:20 But if thou hast goneaside to another instead of thy husband, and if thou be defiled, andsome man have lain with thee beside thine husband: 
5:21 Then thepriest shall charge the woman with an oath of cursing, and the priestshall say unto the woman, The LORD make thee a curse and an oath amongthy people, when the LORD doth make thy thigh to rot, and thy belly toswell; 
5:22 And this water that causeth the curse shall go into thybowels, to make thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to rot: And thewoman shall say, Amen, amen.
5:23 And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shallblot them out with the bitter water: 
5:24 And he shall cause the womanto drink the bitter water that causeth the curse: and the water thatcauseth the curse shall enter into her, and become bitter.
5:25 Then the priest shall take the jealousy offering out of thewoman's hand, and shall wave the offering before the LORD, and offerit upon the altar: 
5:26 And the priest shall take an handful of theoffering, even the memorial thereof, and burn it upon the altar, andafterward shall cause the woman to drink the water.
5:27 And when he hath made her to drink the water, then it shall cometo pass, that, if she be defiled, and have done trespass against herhusband, that the water that causeth the curse shall enter into her,and become bitter, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall rot:and the woman shall be a curse among her people.
5:28 And if the woman be not defiled, but be clean; then she shall befree, and shall conceive seed.
5:29 This is the law of jealousies, when a wife goeth aside to anotherinstead of her husband, and is defiled; 
5:30 Or when the spirit ofjealousy cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his wife, and shallset the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall execute upon herall this law.
5:31 Then shall the man be guiltless from iniquity, and this womanshall bear her iniquity.
6:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
6:2 Speak unto the childrenof Israel, and say unto them, When either man or woman shall separatethemselves to vow a vow of a Nazarite, to separate themselves unto theLORD: 
6:3 He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink, andshall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neithershall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat moist grapes, or dried.
6:4 All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is madeof the vine tree, from the kernels even to the husk.
6:5 All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razorcome upon his head: until the days be fulfilled, in the which heseparateth himself unto the LORD, he shall be holy, and shall let thelocks of the hair of his head grow.
6:6 All the days that he separateth himself unto the LORD he shallcome at no dead body.
6:7 He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for hismother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die: because theconsecration of his God is upon his head.
6:8 All the days of his separation he is holy unto the LORD.
6:9 And if any man die very suddenly by him, and he hath defiled thehead of his consecration; then he shall shave his head in the day ofhis cleansing, on the seventh day shall he shave it.
6:10 And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtles, or two youngpigeons, to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of thecongregation: 
6:11 And the priest shall offer the one for a sinoffering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make an atonementfor him, for that he sinned by the dead, and shall hallow his headthat same day.
6:12 And he shall consecrate unto the LORD the days of his separation,and shall bring a lamb of the first year for a trespass offering: butthe days that were before shall be lost, because his separation wasdefiled.
6:13 And this is the law of the Nazarite, when the days of hisseparation are fulfilled: he shall be brought unto the door of thetabernacle of the congregation: 
6:14 And he shall offer his offeringunto the LORD, one he lamb of the first year without blemish for aburnt offering, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish fora sin offering, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings, 
6:15 And a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled withoil, and wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil, and their meatoffering, and their drink offerings.
6:16 And the priest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offerhis sin offering, and his burnt offering: 
6:17 And he shall offer theram for a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, with the basketof unleavened bread: the priest shall offer also his meat offering,and his drink offering.
6:18 And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at thedoor of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall take the hair ofthe head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under thesacrifice of the peace offerings.
6:19 And the priest shall take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and oneunleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shallput them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after the hair of hisseparation is shaven: 
6:20 And the priest shall wave them for a waveoffering before the LORD: this is holy for the priest, with the wavebreast and heave shoulder: and after that the Nazarite may drink wine.
6:21 This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed, and of hisoffering unto the LORD for his separation, beside that that his handshall get: according to the vow which he vowed, so he must do afterthe law of his separation.
6:22 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
6:23 Speak unto Aaron andunto his sons, saying, On this wise ye shall bless the children ofIsrael, saying unto them, 
6:24 The LORD bless thee, and keep thee:
6:25 The LORD make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious untothee: 
6:26 The LORD lift up his countenance upon thee, and give theepeace.
6:27 And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel, and Iwill bless them.
7:1 And it came to pass on the day that Moses had fully set up thetabernacle, and had anointed it, and sanctified it, and all theinstruments thereof, both the altar and all the vessels thereof, andhad anointed them, and sanctified them; 
7:2 That the princes ofIsrael, heads of the house of their fathers, who were the princes ofthe tribes, and were over them that were numbered, offered: 
7:3 Andthey brought their offering before the LORD, six covered wagons, andtwelve oxen; a wagon for two of the princes, and for each one an ox:and they brought them before the tabernacle.
7:4 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
7:5 Take it of them, thatthey may be to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation;and thou shalt give them unto the Levites, to every man according tohis service.
7:6 And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them unto theLevites.
7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons of Gershon,according to their service: 
7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gaveunto the sons of Merari, according unto their service, under the handof Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
7:9 But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service ofthe sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon theirshoulders.
7:10 And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the daythat it was anointed, even the princes offered their offering beforethe altar.
7:11 And the LORD said unto Moses, They shall offer their offering,each prince on his day, for the dedicating of the altar.
7:12 And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon theson of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah: 
7:13 And his offering was onesilver charger, the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty shekels,one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meatoffering: 
7:14 One spoon of ten shekels of gold, full of incense: 
7:15 One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burntoffering: 
7:16 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:17 And for asacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, fivelambs of the first year: this was the offering of Nahshon the son ofAmminadab.
7:18 On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar,did offer: 
7:19 He offered for his offering one silver charger, theweight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl ofseventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them fullof fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:20 One spoon ofgold of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:21 One young bullock, one ram,one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:22 One kid of thegoats for a sin offering: 
7:23 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings,two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: thiswas the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
7:24 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the childrenof Zebulun, did offer: 
7:25 His offering was one silver charger, theweight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl ofseventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them fullof fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:26 One goldenspoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:27 One young bullock, oneram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:28 One kid ofthe goats for a sin offering: 
7:29 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
7:30 On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of thechildren of Reuben, did offer: 
7:31 His offering was one silvercharger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silverbowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both ofthem full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:32 Onegolden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:33 One young bullock,one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:34 Onekid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:35 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of thechildren of Simeon, did offer: 
7:37 His offering was one silvercharger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, onesilver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:38 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:39 One youngbullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:40 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:41 And for a sacrificeof peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs ofthe first year: this was the offering of Shelumiel the son ofZurishaddai.
7:42 On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of thechildren of Gad, offered: 
7:43 His offering was one silver charger ofthe weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, a silver bowl of seventyshekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fineflour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:44 One golden spoon often shekels, full of incense: 
7:45 One young bullock, one ram, onelamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:46 One kid of thegoats for a sin offering: 
7:47 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings,two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: thiswas the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
7:48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of thechildren of Ephraim, offered: 
7:49 His offering was one silvercharger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, onesilver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:50 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:51 One youngbullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:52 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:53 And for a sacrificeof peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs ofthe first year: this was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
7:54 On the eighth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince ofthe children of Manasseh: 
7:55 His offering was one silver charger ofthe weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl ofseventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them fullof fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:56 One goldenspoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:57 One young bullock, oneram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:58 One kid ofthe goats for a sin offering: 
7:59 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
7:60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of thechildren of Benjamin, offered: 
7:61 His offering was one silvercharger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, onesilver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:62 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:63 One youngbullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:64 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:65 And for a sacrificeof peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs ofthe first year: this was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
7:66 On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of thechildren of Dan, offered: 
7:67 His offering was one silver charger,the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowlof seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of themfull of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:68 Onegolden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:69 One young bullock,one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:70 Onekid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:71 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, prince of thechildren of Asher, offered: 
7:73 His offering was one silver charger,the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowlof seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of themfull of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:74 Onegolden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:75 One young bullock,one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:76 Onekid of the goats for a sin offering: 
7:77 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.
7:78 On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the childrenof Naphtali, offered: 
7:79 His offering was one silver charger, theweight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl ofseventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them fullof fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 
7:80 One goldenspoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 
7:81 One young bullock, oneram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 
7:82 One kid ofthe goats for a sin offering: 
7:83 And for a sacrifice of peaceofferings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the firstyear: this was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
7:84 This was the dedication of the altar, in the day when it wasanointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve chargers of silver, twelvesilver bowls, twelve spoons of gold: 
7:85 Each charger of silverweighing an hundred and thirty shekels, each bowl seventy: all thesilver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels, afterthe shekel of the sanctuary: 
7:86 The golden spoons were twelve, fullof incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of thesanctuary: all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twentyshekels.
7:87 All the oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bullocks, therams twelve, the lambs of the first year twelve, with their meatoffering: and the kids of the goats for sin offering twelve.
7:88 And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings weretwenty and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty, thelambs of the first year sixty. This was the dedication of the altar,after that it was anointed.
7:89 And when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregationto speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto himfrom off the mercy seat that was upon the ark of testimony, frombetween the two cherubims: and he spake unto him.
8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
8:2 Speak unto Aaron andsay unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall givelight over against the candlestick.
8:3 And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof over against thecandlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses.
8:4 And this work of the candlestick was of beaten gold, unto theshaft thereof, unto the flowers thereof, was beaten work: accordingunto the pattern which the LORD had shewed Moses, so he made thecandlestick.
8:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
8:6 Take the Levites fromamong the children of Israel, and cleanse them.
8:7 And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: Sprinkle waterof purifying upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and letthem wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean.
8:8 Then let them take a young bullock with his meat offering, evenfine flour mingled with oil, and another young bullock shalt thou takefor a sin offering.
8:9 And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of thecongregation: and thou shalt gather the whole assembly of the childrenof Israel together: 
8:10 And thou shalt bring the Levites before theLORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon theLevites: 
8:11 And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for anoffering of the children of Israel, that they may execute the serviceof the LORD.
8:12 And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of thebullocks: and thou shalt offer the one for a sin offering, and theother for a burnt offering, unto the LORD, to make an atonement forthe Levites.
8:13 And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons,and offer them for an offering unto the LORD.
8:14 Thus shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children ofIsrael: and the Levites shall be mine.
8:15 And after that shall the Levites go in to do the service of thetabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt cleanse them, and offerthem for an offering.
8:16 For they are wholly given unto me from among the children ofIsrael; instead of such as open every womb, even instead of thefirstborn of all the children of Israel, have I taken them unto me.
8:17 For all the firstborn of the children of Israel are mine, bothman and beast: on the day that I smote every firstborn in the land ofEgypt I sanctified them for myself.
8:18 And I have taken the Levites for all the firstborn of thechildren of Israel.
8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sonsfrom among the children of Israel, to do the service of the childrenof Israel in the tabernacle of the congregation, and to make anatonement for the children of Israel: that there be no plague amongthe children of Israel, when the children of Israel come nigh unto thesanctuary.
8:20 And Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children ofIsrael, did to the Levites according unto all that the LORD commandedMoses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel unto them.
8:21 And the Levites were purified, and they washed their clothes; andAaron offered them as an offering before the LORD; and Aaron made anatonement for them to cleanse them.
8:22 And after that went the Levites in to do their service in thetabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and before his sons: asthe LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they untothem.
8:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
8:24 This is it thatbelongeth unto the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upwardthey shall go in to wait upon the service of the tabernacle of thecongregation: 
8:25 And from the age of fifty years they shall ceasewaiting upon the service thereof, and shall serve no more: 
8:26 Butshall minister with their brethren in the tabernacle of thecongregation, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shaltthou do unto the Levites touching their charge.
9:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in thefirst month of the second year after they were come out of the land ofEgypt, saying, 
9:2 Let the children of Israel also keep the passoverat his appointed season.
9:3 In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it inhis appointed season: according to all the rites of it, and accordingto all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it.
9:4 And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keepthe passover.
9:5 And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the firstmonth at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that theLORD commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.
9:6 And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of aman, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they camebefore Moses and before Aaron on that day: 
9:7 And those men said untohim, We are defiled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we keptback, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his appointedseason among the children of Israel?  
9:8 And Moses said unto them,Stand still, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerningyou.
9:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
9:10 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your posterityshall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be in a journey afaroff, yet he shall keep the passover unto the LORD.
9:11 The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keepit, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
9:12 They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any boneof it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keepit.
9:13 But the man that is clean, and is not in a journey, andforbeareth to keep the passover, even the same soul shall be cut offfrom among his people: because he brought not the offering of the LORDin his appointed season, that man shall bear his sin.
9:14 And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep thepassover unto the LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover,and according to the manner thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have oneordinance, both for the stranger, and for him that was born in theland.
9:15 And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloudcovered the tabernacle, namely, the tent of the testimony: and at eventhere was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, untilthe morning.
9:16 So it was alway: the cloud covered it by day, and the appearanceof fire by night.
9:17 And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then afterthat the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where thecloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.
9:18 At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed,and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloudabode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents.
9:19 And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days,then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyednot.
9:20 And so it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle;according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents,and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.
9:21 And so it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning,and that the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed:whether it was by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, theyjourneyed.
9:22 Or whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that thecloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children ofIsrael abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was takenup, they journeyed.
9:23 At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and atthe commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge ofthe LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
10:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
10:2 Make thee twotrumpets of silver; of a whole piece shalt thou make them: that thoumayest use them for the calling of the assembly, and for thejourneying of the camps.
10:3 And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shallassemble themselves to thee at the door of the tabernacle of thecongregation.
10:4 And if they blow but with one trumpet, then the princes, whichare heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves untothee.
10:5 When ye blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east partsshall go forward.
10:6 When ye blow an alarm the second time, then the camps that lie onthe south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm fortheir journeys.
10:7 But when the congregation is to be gathered together, ye shallblow, but ye shall not sound an alarm.
10:8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets;and they shall be to you for an ordinance for ever throughout yourgenerations.
10:9 And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy thatoppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and yeshall be remembered before the LORD your God, and ye shall be savedfrom your enemies.
10:10 Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn days, andin the beginnings of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets overyour burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings;that they may be to you for a memorial before your God: I am the LORDyour God.
10:11 And it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, inthe second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacleof the testimony.
10:12 And the children of Israel took their journeys out of thewilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.
10:13 And they first took their journey according to the commandmentof the LORD by the hand of Moses.
10:14 In the first place went the standard of the camp of the childrenof Judah according to their armies: and over his host was Nahshon theson of Amminadab.
10:15 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar wasNethaneel the son of Zuar.
10:16 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun wasEliab the son of Helon.
10:17 And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon andthe sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.
10:18 And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according totheir armies: and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
10:19 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon wasShelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
10:20 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad wasEliasaph the son of Deuel.
10:21 And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and theother did set up the tabernacle against they came.
10:22 And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim setforward according to their armies: and over his host was Elishama theson of Ammihud.
10:23 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh wasGamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
10:24 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin wasAbidan the son of Gideoni.
10:25 And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward,which was the rereward of all the camps throughout their hosts: andover his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
10:26 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher wasPagiel the son of Ocran.
10:27 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali wasAhira the son of Enan.
10:28 Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according totheir armies, when they set forward.
10:29 And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite,Moses' father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which theLORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do theegood: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.
10:30 And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mineown land, and to my kindred.
10:31 And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thouknowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be tous instead of eyes.
10:32 And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that whatgoodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee.
10:33 And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days'journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them inthe three days' journey, to search out a resting place for them.
10:34 And the cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they wentout of the camp.
10:35 And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said,Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them thathate thee flee before thee.
10:36 And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the manythousands of Israel.
11:1 And when the people complained, it displeased the LORD: and theLORD heard it; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORDburnt among them, and consumed them that were in the uttermost partsof the camp.
11:2 And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto theLORD, the fire was quenched.
11:3 And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire ofthe LORD burnt among them.
11:4 And the mixt multitude that was among them fell a lusting: andthe children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give usflesh to eat?  
11:5 We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egyptfreely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions,and the garlick: 
11:6 But now our soul is dried away: there is nothingat all, beside this manna, before our eyes.
11:7 And the manna was as coriander seed, and the colour thereof asthe colour of bdellium.
11:8 And the people went about, and gathered it, and ground it inmills, or beat it in a mortar, and baked it in pans, and made cakes ofit: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
11:9 And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fellupon it.
11:10 Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families,every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the LORD waskindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.
11:11 And Moses said unto the LORD, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thyservant? and wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thoulayest the burden of all this people upon me?  
11:12 Have I conceivedall this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say untome, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the suckingchild, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?  
11:13 Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weepunto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
11:14 I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is tooheavy for me.
11:15 And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out ofhand, if I have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see mywretchedness.
11:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of theelders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people,and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle of thecongregation, that they may stand there with thee.
11:17 And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will takeof the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and theyshall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it notthyself alone.
11:18 And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of theLORD, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with usin Egypt: therefore the LORD will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.
11:19 Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neitherten days, nor twenty days; 
11:20 But even a whole month, until it comeout at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that yehave despised the LORD which is among you, and have wept before him,saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?  
11:21 And Moses said, Thepeople, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thouhast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
11:22 Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to sufficethem?  or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them,to suffice them?  
11:23 And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD'shand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come topass unto thee or not.
11:24 And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the LORD,and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set themround about the tabernacle.
11:25 And the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and tookof the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders:and it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, theyprophesied, and did not cease.
11:26 But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of theone was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit restedupon them; and they were of them that were written, but went not outunto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
11:27 And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad andMedad do prophesy in the camp.
11:28 And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of hisyoung men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
11:29 And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would Godthat all the LORD's people were prophets, and that the LORD would puthis spirit upon them!  
11:30 And Moses gat him into the camp, he andthe elders of Israel.
11:31 And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quailsfrom the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day'sjourney on this side, and as it were a day's journey on the otherside, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon theface of the earth.
11:32 And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, andall the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered leastgathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselvesround about the camp.
11:33 And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it waschewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and theLORD smote the people with a very great plague.
11:34 And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: becausethere they buried the people that lusted.
11:35 And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth;and abode at Hazeroth.
12:1 And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopianwoman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman.
12:2 And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath henot spoken also by us? And the LORD heard it.
12:3 (Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which wereupon the face of the earth.)  
12:4 And the LORD spake suddenly untoMoses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto thetabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out.
12:5 And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood inthe door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they bothcame forth.
12:6 And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you,I the LORD will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speakunto him in a dream.
12:7 My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house.
12:8 With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not indark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold:wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?
12:9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and hedeparted.
12:10 And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold,Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam,and, behold, she was leprous.
12:11 And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, laynot the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein wehave sinned.
12:12 Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumedwhen he cometh out of his mother's womb.
12:13 And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, Ibeseech thee.
12:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, If her father had but spit in herface, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out fromthe camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again.
12:15 And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the peoplejourneyed not till Miriam was brought in again.
12:16 And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched inthe wilderness of Paran.
13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
13:2 Send thou men, thatthey may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children ofIsrael: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every onea ruler among them.
13:3 And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from thewilderness of Paran: all those men were heads of the children ofIsrael.
13:4 And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua theson of Zaccur.
13:5 Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.
13:6 Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
13:7 Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.
13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun.
13:9 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.
13:10 Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.
13:11 Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddithe son of Susi.
13:12 Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.
13:13 Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.
13:14 Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.
13:15 Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
13:16 These are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out theland.And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.
13:17 And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said untothem, Get you up this way southward, and go up into the mountain:
13:18 And see the land, what it is, and the people that dwelleththerein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many; 
13:19 And whatthe land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and whatcities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strongholds; 
13:20 And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whetherthere be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring ofthe fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the firstripegrapes.
13:21 So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness ofZin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath.
13:22 And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; whereAhiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebronwas built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)  
13:23 And they came untothe brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with onecluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and theybrought of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
13:24 The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster ofgrapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence.
13:25 And they returned from searching of the land after forty days.
13:26 And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all thecongregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran,to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all thecongregation, and shewed them the fruit of the land.
13:27 And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thousentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is thefruit of it.
13:28 Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, andthe cities are walled, and very great: and moreover we saw thechildren of Anak there.
13:29 The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites,and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and theCanaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.
13:30 And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us goup at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.
13:31 But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go upagainst the people; for they are stronger than we.
13:32 And they brought up an evil report of the land which they hadsearched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through whichwe have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitantsthereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a greatstature.
13:33 And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of thegiants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we werein their sight.
14:1 And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; andthe people wept that night.
14:2 And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and againstAaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that wehad died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in thiswilderness!  
14:3 And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto thisland, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should bea prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?  
14:4 And theysaid one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return intoEgypt.
14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assemblyof the congregation of the children of Israel.
14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, whichwere of them that searched the land, rent their clothes: 
14:7 And theyspake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, Theland, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land.
14:8 If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land,and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey.
14:9 Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people ofthe land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed fromthem, and the LORD is with us: fear them not.
14:10 But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And theglory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregationbefore all the children of Israel.
14:11 And the LORD said unto Moses, How long will this people provokeme?  and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signswhich I have shewed among them?  
14:12 I will smite them with thepestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greaternation and mightier than they.
14:13 And Moses said unto the LORD, Then the Egyptians shall hear it,(for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;)
14:14 And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land: for theyhave heard that thou LORD art among this people, that thou LORD artseen face to face, and that thy cloud standeth over them, and thatthou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in apillar of fire by night.
14:15 Now if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then thenations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying, 
14:16 Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land whichhe sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness.
14:17 And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my LORD be great,according as thou hast spoken, saying, 
14:18 The LORD islongsuffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity andtransgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting theiniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourthgeneration.
14:19 Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people accordingunto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven thispeople, from Egypt even until now.
14:20 And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word: 
14:21 But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the gloryof the LORD.
14:22 Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles,which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me nowthese ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice; 
14:23 Surely theyshall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shallany of them that provoked me see it: 
14:24 But my servant Caleb,because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully,him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shallpossess it.
14:25 (Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley.)Tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way of theRed sea.
14:26 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
14:27 Howlong shall I bear with this evil congregation, which murmur againstme? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which theymurmur against me.
14:28 Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith the LORD, as ye havespoken in mine ears, so will I do to you: 
14:29 Your carcases shallfall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, accordingto your whole number, from twenty years old and upward which havemurmured against me.
14:30 Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, concerning which Isware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, andJoshua the son of Nun.
14:31 But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them willI bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised.
14:32 But as for you, your carcases, they shall fall in thiswilderness.
14:33 And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years,and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted in thewilderness.
14:34 After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, evenforty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, evenforty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.
14:35 I the LORD have said, I will surely do it unto all this evilcongregation, that are gathered together against me: in thiswilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.
14:36 And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned,and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up aslander upon the land, 
14:37 Even those men that did bring up the evilreport upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD.
14:38 But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, whichwere of the men that went to search the land, lived still.
14:39 And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel:and the people mourned greatly.
14:40 And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into thetop of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and will go up unto theplace which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.
14:41 And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandmentof the LORD? but it shall not prosper.
14:42 Go not up, for the LORD is not among you; that ye be not smittenbefore your enemies.
14:43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, andye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD,therefore the LORD will not be with you.
14:44 But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless theark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of thecamp.
14:45 Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt inthat hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, even unto Hormah.
15:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
15:2 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the landof your habitations, which I give unto you, 
15:3 And will make anoffering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice inperforming a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts,to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd or of the flock:
15:4 Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring ameat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part ofan hin of oil.
15:5 And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shaltthou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.
15:6 Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenthdeals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil.
15:7 And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of anhin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.
15:8 And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for asacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD: 
15:9 Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenthdeals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.
15:10 And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine,for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
15:11 Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for alamb, or a kid.
15:12 According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do toevery one according to their number.
15:13 All that are born of the country shall do these things afterthis manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savourunto the LORD.
15:14 And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you inyour generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweetsavour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.
15:15 One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, andalso for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for everin your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before theLORD.
15:16 One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the strangerthat sojourneth with you.
15:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
15:18 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the landwhither I bring you, 
15:19 Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of thebread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.
15:20 Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heaveoffering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shallye heave it.
15:21 Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heaveoffering in your generations.
15:22 And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments,which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses, 
15:23 Even all that the LORDhath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORDcommanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations; 
15:24 Thenit shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledgeof the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one youngbullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD, withhis meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner,and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.
15:25 And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregationof the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it isignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made byfire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for theirignorance: 
15:26 And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of thechildren of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them;seeing all the people were in ignorance.
15:27 And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a shegoat of the first year for a sin offering.
15:28 And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinnethignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make anatonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.
15:29 Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance,both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for thestranger that sojourneth among them.
15:30 But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be bornin the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and thatsoul shall be cut off from among his people.
15:31 Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath brokenhis commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquityshall be upon him.
15:32 And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, theyfound a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day.
15:33 And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Mosesand Aaron, and unto all the congregation.
15:34 And they put him in ward, because it was not declared whatshould be done to him.
15:35 And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put todeath: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without thecamp.
15:36 And all the congregation brought him without the camp, andstoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.
15:37 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
15:38 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in theborders of their garments throughout their generations, and that theyput upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue: 
15:39 And itshall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and rememberall the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye seek notafter your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go awhoring: 
15:40 That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, andbe holy unto your God.
15:41 I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land ofEgypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.
16:1 Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi,and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth,sons of Reuben, took men: 
16:2 And they rose up before Moses, withcertain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes ofthe assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown: 
16:3 And theygathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and saidunto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation areholy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them: wherefore thenlift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?  
16:4 Andwhen Moses heard it, he fell upon his face: 
16:5 And he spake untoKorah and unto all his company, saying, Even to morrow the LORD willshew who are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to come nearunto him: even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near untohim.
16:6 This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company; 
16:7 Andput fire therein, and put incense in them before the LORD to morrow:and it shall be that the man whom the LORD doth choose, he shall beholy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi.
16:8 And Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:
16:9 Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israelhath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you nearto himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the LORD, and tostand before the congregation to minister unto them?  
16:10 And hehath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons of Leviwith thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?  
16:11 For which causeboth thou and all thy company are gathered together against the LORD:and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?  
16:12 And Moses sentto call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which said, We will notcome up: 
16:13 Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out ofa land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness,except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?  
16:14 Moreoverthou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey,or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out theeyes of these men? we will not come up.
16:15 And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the LORD, Respect notthou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither haveI hurt one of them.
16:16 And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company beforethe LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to morrow: 
16:17 And take everyman his censer, and put incense in them, and bring ye before the LORDevery man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, andAaron, each of you his censer.
16:18 And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, andlaid incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of thecongregation with Moses and Aaron.
16:19 And Korah gathered all the congregation against them unto thedoor of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the glory of the LORDappeared unto all the congregation.
16:20 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
16:21 Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consumethem in a moment.
16:22 And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of thespirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth withall the congregation?  
16:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
16:24 Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up from about thetabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.
16:25 And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and theelders of Israel followed him.
16:26 And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you,from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of their's, lestye be consumed in all their sins.
16:27 So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram,on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the doorof their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their littlechildren.
16:28 And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent meto do all these works; for I have not done them of mine own mind.
16:29 If these men die the common death of all men, or if they bevisited after the visitation of all men; then the LORD hath not sentme.
16:30 But if the LORD make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth,and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they godown quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men haveprovoked the LORD.
16:31 And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speaking all thesewords, that the ground clave asunder that was under them: 
16:32 Andthe earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses,and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their goods.
16:33 They, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into thepit, and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from among thecongregation.
16:34 And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry ofthem: for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up also.
16:35 And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the twohundred and fifty men that offered incense.
16:36 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
16:37 Speak unto Eleazarthe son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of theburning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are hallowed.
16:38 The censers of these sinners against their own souls, let themmake them broad plates for a covering of the altar: for they offeredthem before the LORD, therefore they are hallowed: and they shall be asign unto the children of Israel.
16:39 And Eleazar the priest took the brasen censers, wherewith theythat were burnt had offered; and they were made broad plates for acovering of the altar: 
16:40 To be a memorial unto the children ofIsrael, that no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come nearto offer incense before the LORD; that he be not as Korah, and as hiscompany: as the LORD said to him by the hand of Moses.
16:41 But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israelmurmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed thepeople of the LORD.
16:42 And it came to pass, when the congregation was gathered againstMoses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of thecongregation: and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of theLORD appeared.
16:43 And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of thecongregation.
16:44 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
16:45 Get you up fromamong this congregation, that I may consume them as in a moment. Andthey fell upon their faces.
16:46 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censer, and put fire thereinfrom off the altar, and put on incense, and go quickly unto thecongregation, and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath goneout from the LORD; the plague is begun.
16:47 And Aaron took as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst of thecongregation; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: andhe put on incense, and made an atonement for the people.
16:48 And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague wasstayed.
16:49 Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand andseven hundred, beside them that died about the matter of Korah.
16:50 And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle ofthe congregation: and the plague was stayed.
17:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
17:2 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according tothe house of their fathers, of all their princes according to thehouse of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name uponhis rod.
17:3 And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi: for onerod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.
17:4 And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregationbefore the testimony, where I will meet with you.
17:5 And it shall come to pass, that the man's rod, whom I shallchoose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmuringsof the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.
17:6 And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one oftheir princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according totheir fathers' houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron wasamong their rods.
17:7 And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle ofwitness.
17:8 And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into thetabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house ofLevi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, andyielded almonds.
17:9 And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto allthe children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.
17:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again before thetestimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shaltquite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not.
17:11 And Moses did so: as the LORD commanded him, so did he.
17:12 And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, wedie, we perish, we all perish.
17:13 Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORDshall die: shall we be consumed with dying?  
18:1 And the LORD saidunto Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee shallbear the iniquity of the sanctuary: and thou and thy sons with theeshall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
18:2 And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thyfather, bring thou with thee, that they may be joined unto thee, andminister unto thee: but thou and thy sons with thee shall ministerbefore the tabernacle of witness.
18:3 And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all thetabernacle: only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuaryand the altar, that neither they, nor ye also, die.
18:4 And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of thetabernacle of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle:and a stranger shall not come nigh unto you.
18:5 And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge ofthe altar: that there be no wrath any more upon the children ofIsrael.
18:6 And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from amongthe children of Israel: to you they are given as a gift for the LORD,to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
18:7 Therefore thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priest'soffice for everything of the altar, and within the vail; and ye shallserve: I have given your priest's office unto you as a service ofgift: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.
18:8 And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Behold, I also have given thee thecharge of mine heave offerings of all the hallowed things of thechildren of Israel; unto thee have I given them by reason of theanointing, and to thy sons, by an ordinance for ever.
18:9 This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from thefire: every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, andevery sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirswhich they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and forthy sons.
18:10 In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eatit: it shall be holy unto thee.
18:11 And this is thine; the heave offering of their gift, with allthe wave offerings of the children of Israel: I have given them untothee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by a statute forever: every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it.
18:12 All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine, and ofthe wheat, the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto theLORD, them have I given thee.
18:13 And whatsoever is first ripe in the land, which they shall bringunto the LORD, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thine houseshall eat of it.
18:14 Every thing devoted in Israel shall be thine.
18:15 Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which theybring unto the LORD, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine:nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem, and thefirstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem.
18:16 And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thouredeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels,after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.
18:17 But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or thefirstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shaltsprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for anoffering made by fire, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.
18:18 And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave breast and asthe right shoulder are thine.
18:19 All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the childrenof Israel offer unto the LORD, have I given thee, and thy sons and thydaughters with thee, by a statute for ever: it is a covenant of saltfor ever before the LORD unto thee and to thy seed with thee.
18:20 And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance intheir land, neither shalt thou have any part among them: I am thy partand thine inheritance among the children of Israel.
18:21 And, behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth inIsrael for an inheritance, for their service which they serve, eventhe service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
18:22 Neither must the children of Israel henceforth come nigh thetabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die.
18:23 But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of thecongregation, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be astatute for ever throughout your generations, that among the childrenof Israel they have no inheritance.
18:24 But the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as anheave offering unto the LORD, I have given to the Levites to inherit:therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel theyshall have no inheritance.
18:25 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
18:26 Thus speak unto theLevites, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel thetithes which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then yeshall offer up an heave offering of it for the LORD, even a tenth partof the tithe.
18:27 And this your heave offering shall be reckoned unto you, asthough it were the corn of the threshingfloor, and as the fulness ofthe winepress.
18:28 Thus ye also shall offer an heave offering unto the LORD of allyour tithes, which ye receive of the children of Israel; and ye shallgive thereof the LORD's heave offering to Aaron the priest.
18:29 Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of theLORD, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out ofit.
18:30 Therefore thou shalt say unto them, When ye have heaved the bestthereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as theincrease of the threshingfloor, and as the increase of the winepress.
18:31 And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your households: forit is your reward for your service in the tabernacle of thecongregation.
18:32 And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heavedfrom it the best of it: neither shall ye pollute the holy things ofthe children of Israel, lest ye die.
19:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
19:2 Thisis the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded, saying,Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring thee a red heiferwithout spot, wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came yoke:
19:3 And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, that he may bringher forth without the camp, and one shall slay her before his face:
19:4 And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger,and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of thecongregation seven times: 
19:5 And one shall burn the heifer in hissight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall heburn: 
19:6 And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, andscarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
19:7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe hisflesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and thepriest shall be unclean until the even.
19:8 And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, andbathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even.
19:9 And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer,and lay them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall bekept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water ofseparation: it is a purification for sin.
19:10 And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash hisclothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto thechildren of Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them,for a statute for ever.
19:11 He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean sevendays.
19:12 He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on theseventh day he shall be clean: but if he purify not himself the thirdday, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
19:13 Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, andpurifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the LORD; and thatsoul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation wasnot sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yetupon him.
19:14 This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come intothe tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
19:15 And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, isunclean.
19:16 And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in theopen fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall beunclean seven days.
19:17 And for an unclean person they shall take of the ashes of theburnt heifer of purification for sin, and running water shall be putthereto in a vessel: 
19:18 And a clean person shall take hyssop, anddip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all thevessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him thattouched a bone, or one slain, or one dead, or a grave: 
19:19 And theclean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and onthe seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify himself, andwash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean ateven.
19:20 But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself,that soul shall be cut off from among the congregation, because hehath defiled the sanctuary of the LORD: the water of separation hathnot been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.
19:21 And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them, that he thatsprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; and he thattoucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.
19:22 And whatsoever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; andthe soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.
20:1 Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation,into the desert of Zin in the first month: and the people abode inKadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
20:2 And there was no water for the congregation: and they gatheredthemselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
20:3 And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, Would Godthat we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!  
20:4 And whyhave ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness,that we and our cattle should die there?  
20:5 And wherefore have yemade us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place?it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates;neither is there any water to drink.
20:6 And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly untothe door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upontheir faces: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto them.
20:7 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
20:8 Take the rod, andgather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron thy brother, andspeak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth hiswater, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: sothou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink.
20:9 And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
20:10 And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together beforethe rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetchyou water out of this rock?  
20:11 And Moses lifted up his hand, andwith his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came outabundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also.
20:12 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, Because ye believed menot, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, thereforeye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have giventhem.
20:13 This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israelstrove with the LORD, and he was sanctified in them.
20:14 And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh unto the king of Edom,Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hathbefallen us: 
20:15 How our fathers went down into Egypt, and we havedwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians vexed us, and ourfathers: 
20:16 And when we cried unto the LORD, he heard our voice,and sent an angel, and hath brought us forth out of Egypt: and,behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy border: 
20:17 Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country: we will not passthrough the fields, or through the vineyards, neither will we drink ofthe water of the wells: we will go by the king's high way, we will notturn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thyborders.
20:18 And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I comeout against thee with the sword.
20:19 And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go by the highway: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay forit: I will only, without doing anything else, go through on my feet.
20:20 And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came outagainst him with much people, and with a strong hand.
20:21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border:wherefore Israel turned away from him.
20:22 And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation,journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.
20:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by thecoast of the land of Edom, saying, 
20:24 Aaron shall be gathered untohis people: for he shall not enter into the land which I have givenunto the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word atthe water of Meribah.
20:25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up unto mountHor: 
20:26 And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazarhis son: and Aaron shall be gathered unto his people, and shall diethere.
20:27 And Moses did as the LORD commanded: and they went up into mountHor in the sight of all the congregation.
20:28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them uponEleazar his son; and Aaron died there in the top of the mount: andMoses and Eleazar came down from the mount.
20:29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, theymourned for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.
21:1 And when king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heardtell that Israel came by the way of the spies; then he fought againstIsrael, and took some of them prisoners.
21:2 And Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wiltindeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroytheir cities.
21:3 And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered upthe Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: andhe called the name of the place Hormah.
21:4 And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, tocompass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was muchdiscouraged because of the way.
21:5 And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Whereforehave ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for thereis no bread, neither is there any water; and our soul loatheth thislight bread.
21:6 And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bitthe people; and much people of Israel died.
21:7 Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, forwe have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the LORD,that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for thepeople.
21:8 And the LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and setit upon a pole: and it shall come to pass, that every one that isbitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live.
21:9 And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and itcame to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld theserpent of brass, he lived.
21:10 And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth.
21:11 And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in thewilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.
21:12 From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.
21:13 From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side ofArnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of theAmorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and theAmorites.
21:14 Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, Whathe did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon, 
21:15 And at thestream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and liethupon the border of Moab.
21:16 And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well whereof theLORD spake unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will givethem water.
21:17 Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:
21:18 The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it,by the direction of the lawgiver, with their staves. And from thewilderness they went to Mattanah: 
21:19 And from Mattanah to Nahaliel:and from Nahaliel to Bamoth: 
21:20 And from Bamoth in the valley, thatis in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh towardJeshimon.
21:21 And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites,saying, 
21:22 Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into thefields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink of the waters of thewell: but we will go along by the king's high way, until we be pastthy borders.
21:23 And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border:but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out againstIsrael into the wilderness: and he came to Jahaz, and fought againstIsrael.
21:24 And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessedhis land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon: forthe border of the children of Ammon was strong.
21:25 And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all thecities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the villages thereof.
21:26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, whohad fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land outof his hand, even unto Arnon.
21:27 Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon,let the city of Sihon be built and prepared: 
21:28 For there is a firegone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon: it hath consumedAr of Moab, and the lords of the high places of Arnon.
21:29 Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hathgiven his sons that escaped, and his daughters, into captivity untoSihon king of the Amorites.
21:30 We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, andwe have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which reacheth unto Medeba.
21:31 Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villagesthereof, and drove out the Amorites that were there.
21:33 And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og theking of Bashan went out against them, he, and all his people, to thebattle at Edrei.
21:34 And the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have deliveredhim into thy hand, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt doto him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt atHeshbon.
21:35 So they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until therewas none left him alive: and they possessed his land.
22:1 And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plainsof Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.
22:2 And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to theAmorites.
22:3 And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many:and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
22:4 And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Now shall this companylick up all that are round about us, as the ox licketh up the grass ofthe field.And Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at that time.
22:5 He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor toPethor, which is by the river of the land of the children of hispeople, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out fromEgypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide overagainst me: 
22:6 Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me thispeople; for they are too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail,that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of the land: forI wot that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou cursestis cursed.
22:7 And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with therewards of divination in their hand; and they came unto Balaam, andspake unto him the words of Balak.
22:8 And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bringyou word again, as the LORD shall speak unto me: and the princes ofMoab abode with Balaam.
22:9 And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?
22:10 And Balaam said unto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab,hath sent unto me, saying, 
22:11 Behold, there is a people come out ofEgypt, which covereth the face of the earth: come now, curse me them;peradventure I shall be able to overcome them, and drive them out.
22:12 And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them; thoushalt not curse the people: for they are blessed.
22:13 And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said unto the princes ofBalak, Get you into your land: for the LORD refuseth to give me leaveto go with you.
22:14 And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balak, andsaid, Balaam refuseth to come with us.
22:15 And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honourable thanthey.
22:16 And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak theson of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming untome: 
22:17 For I will promote thee unto very great honour, and I willdo whatsoever thou sayest unto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curseme this people.
22:18 And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, IfBalak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot gobeyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more.
22:19 Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that Imay know what the LORD will say unto me more.
22:20 And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, If the mencome to call thee, rise up, and go with them; but yet the word which Ishall say unto thee, that shalt thou do.
22:21 And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and wentwith the princes of Moab.
22:22 And God's anger was kindled because he went: and the angel ofthe LORD stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he wasriding upon his ass, and his two servants were with him.
22:23 And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, andhis sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned aside out of the way,and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to turn her intothe way.
22:24 But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, awall being on this side, and a wall on that side.
22:25 And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she thrust herselfunto the wall, and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall: and hesmote her again.
22:26 And the angel of the LORD went further, and stood in a narrowplace, where was no way to turn either to the right hand or to theleft.
22:27 And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she fell down underBalaam: and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with astaff.
22:28 And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said untoBalaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me thesethree times?  
22:29 And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hastmocked me: I would there were a sword in mine hand, for now would Ikill thee.
22:30 And the ass said unto Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon whichthou hast ridden ever since I was thine unto this day? was I ever wontto do so unto thee? And he said, Nay.
22:31 Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel ofthe LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and hebowed down his head, and fell flat on his face.
22:32 And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thousmitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstandthee, because thy way is perverse before me: 
22:33 And the ass saw me,and turned from me these three times: unless she had turned from me,surely now also I had slain thee, and saved her alive.
22:34 And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for Iknew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, ifit displease thee, I will get me back again.
22:35 And the angel of the LORD said unto Balaam, Go with the men: butonly the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. SoBalaam went with the princes of Balak.
22:36 And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meethim unto a city of Moab, which is in the border of Arnon, which is inthe utmost coast.
22:37 And Balak said unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto theeto call thee? wherefore camest thou not unto me? am I not able indeedto promote thee to honour?  
22:38 And Balaam said unto Balak, Lo, I amcome unto thee: have I now any power at all to say any thing? the wordthat God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak.
22:39 And Balaam went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth.
22:40 And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to theprinces that were with him.
22:41 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, andbrought him up into the high places of Baal, that thence he might seethe utmost part of the people.
23:1 And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, andprepare me here seven oxen and seven rams.
23:2 And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offeredon every altar a bullock and a ram.
23:3 And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and Iwill go: peradventure the LORD will come to meet me: and whatsoever hesheweth me I will tell thee. And he went to an high place.
23:4 And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared sevenaltars, and I have offered upon every altar a bullock and a ram.
23:5 And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return untoBalak, and thus thou shalt speak.
23:6 And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stood by his burntsacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab.
23:7 And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hathbrought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come,curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel.
23:8 How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy,whom the LORD hath not defied?  
23:9 For from the top of the rocks Isee him, and from the hills I behold him: lo, the people shall dwellalone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.
23:10 Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourthpart of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my lastend be like his!  
23:11 And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thoudone unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thouhast blessed them altogether.
23:12 And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak thatwhich the LORD hath put in my mouth?  
23:13 And Balak said unto him,Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayestsee them: thou shalt see but the utmost part of them, and shalt notsee them all: and curse me them from thence.
23:14 And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top ofPisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram onevery altar.
23:15 And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, whileI meet the LORD yonder.
23:16 And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said,Go again unto Balak, and say thus.
23:17 And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering,and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What haththe LORD spoken?  
23:18 And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up,Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor: 
23:19 God is nota man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he shouldrepent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, andshall he not make it good?  
23:20 Behold, I have received commandmentto bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it.
23:21 He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seenperverseness in Israel: the LORD his God is with him, and the shout ofa king is among them.
23:22 God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strengthof an unicorn.
23:23 Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is thereany divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be saidof Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought!  
23:24 Behold, thepeople shall rise up as a great lion, and lift up himself as a younglion: he shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drink theblood of the slain.
23:25 And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor blessthem at all.
23:26 But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee,saying, All that the LORD speaketh, that I must do?  
23:27 And Balaksaid unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto anotherplace; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me themfrom thence.
23:28 And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, that lookethtoward Jeshimon.
23:29 And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, andprepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.
23:30 And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and aram on every altar.
24:1 And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, hewent not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set hisface toward the wilderness.
24:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding in histents according to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him.
24:3 And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hathsaid, and the man whose eyes are open hath said: 
24:4 He hath said,which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty,falling into a trance, but having his eyes open: 
24:5 How goodly arethy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!  
24:6 As thevalleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river's side, as thetrees of lign aloes which the LORD hath planted, and as cedar treesbeside the waters.
24:7 He shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed shall bein many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and hiskingdom shall be exalted.
24:8 God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were thestrength of an unicorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, andshall break their bones, and pierce them through with his arrows.
24:9 He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion: who shallstir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he thatcurseth thee.
24:10 And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote hishands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to cursemine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed them thesethree times.
24:11 Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote theeunto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honour.
24:12 And Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengerswhich thou sentest unto me, saying, 
24:13 If Balak would give me hishouse full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment ofthe LORD, to do either good or bad of mine own mind; but what the LORDsaith, that will I speak?  
24:14 And now, behold, I go unto my people:come therefore, and I will advertise thee what this people shall do tothy people in the latter days.
24:15 And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beorhath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said: 
24:16 He hathsaid, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the mostHigh, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, buthaving his eyes open: 
24:17 I shall see him, but not now: I shallbehold him, but not nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and aSceptre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab,and destroy all the children of Sheth.
24:18 And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possessionfor his enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly.
24:19 Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shalldestroy him that remaineth of the city.
24:20 And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said,Amalek was the first of the nations; but his latter end shall be thathe perish for ever.
24:21 And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said,Strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock.
24:22 Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted, until Asshur shallcarry thee away captive.
24:23 And he took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live whenGod doeth this!  
24:24 And ships shall come from the coast of Chittim,and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shallperish for ever.
24:25 And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: andBalak also went his way.
25:1 And Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commitwhoredom with the daughters of Moab.
25:2 And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: andthe people did eat, and bowed down to their gods.
25:3 And Israel joined himself unto Baalpeor: and the anger of theLORD was kindled against Israel.
25:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people,and hang them up before the LORD against the sun, that the fierceanger of the LORD may be turned away from Israel.
25:5 And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every one hismen that were joined unto Baalpeor.
25:6 And, behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought untohis brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight of Moses, and in thesight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who wereweeping before the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
25:7 And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron thepriest, saw it, he rose up from among the congregation, and took ajavelin in his hand; 
25:8 And he went after the man of Israel into thetent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and thewoman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the children ofIsrael.
25:9 And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand.
25:10 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
25:11 Phinehas, the sonof Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath awayfrom the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake amongthem, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.
25:12 Wherefore say, Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace:
25:13 And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenantof an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, andmade an atonement for the children of Israel.
25:14 Now the name of the Israelite that was slain, even that wasslain with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, a princeof a chief house among the Simeonites.
25:15 And the name of the Midianitish woman that was slain was Cozbi,the daughter of Zur; he was head over a people, and of a chief housein Midian.
25:16 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
25:17 Vex the Midianites,and smite them: 
25:18 For they vex you with their wiles, wherewiththey have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter ofCozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, which wasslain in the day of the plague for Peor's sake.
26:1 And it came to pass after the plague, that the LORD spake untoMoses and unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, 
26:2 Takethe sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twentyyears old and upward, throughout their fathers' house, all that areable to go to war in Israel.
26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them in the plains ofMoab by Jordan near Jericho, saying, 
26:4 Take the sum of the people,from twenty years old and upward; as the LORD commanded Moses and thechildren of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt.
26:5 Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch,of whom cometh the family of the Hanochites: of Pallu, the family ofthe Palluites: 
26:6 Of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Carmi,the family of the Carmites.
26:7 These are the families of the Reubenites: and they that werenumbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred andthirty.
26:8 And the sons of Pallu; Eliab.
26:9 And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This isthat Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, whostrove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, whenthey strove against the LORD: 
26:10 And the earth opened her mouth,and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died,what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men: and they becamea sign.
26:11 Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.
26:12 The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the familyof the Nemuelites: of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites: of Jachin,the family of the Jachinites: 
26:13 Of Zerah, the family of theZarhites: of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
26:14 These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty and twothousand and two hundred.
26:15 The children of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the familyof the Zephonites: of Haggi, the family of the Haggites: of Shuni, thefamily of the Shunites: 
26:16 Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites: ofEri, the family of the Erites: 
26:17 Of Arod, the family of theArodites: of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
26:18 These are the families of the children of Gad according to thosethat were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.
26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan: and Er and Onan died in theland of Canaan.
26:20 And the sons of Judah after their families were; of Shelah, thefamily of the Shelanites: of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites: ofZerah, the family of the Zarhites.
26:21 And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezron, the family of theHezronites: of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.
26:22 These are the families of Judah according to those that werenumbered of them, threescore and sixteen thousand and five hundred.
26:23 Of the sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, thefamily of the Tolaites: of Pua, the family of the Punites: 
26:24 OfJashub, the family of the Jashubites: of Shimron, the family of theShimronites.
26:25 These are the families of Issachar according to those that werenumbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.
26:26 Of the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, thefamily of the Sardites: of Elon, the family of the Elonites: ofJahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
26:27 These are the families of the Zebulunites according to thosethat were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.
26:28 The sons of Joseph after their families were Manasseh andEphraim.
26:29 Of the sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of theMachirites: and Machir begat Gilead: of Gilead come the family of theGileadites.
26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of theJeezerites: of Helek, the family of the Helekites: 
26:31 And ofAsriel, the family of the Asrielites: and of Shechem, the family ofthe Shechemites: 
26:32 And of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites:and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
26:33 And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: andthe names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah,Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
26:34 These are the families of Manasseh, and those that were numberedof them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.
26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: ofShuthelah, the family of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the family ofthe Bachrites: of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of theEranites.
26:37 These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to thosethat were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred.These are the sons of Joseph after their families.
26:38 The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the familyof the Belaites: of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram,the family of the Ahiramites: 
26:39 Of Shupham, the family of theShuphamites: of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
26:40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the family ofthe Ardites: and of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin after their families: and theythat were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and sixhundred.
26:42 These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, thefamily of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after theirfamilies.
26:43 All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that werenumbered of them, were threescore and four thousand and four hundred.
26:44 Of the children of Asher after their families: of Jimna, thefamily of the Jimnites: of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites: ofBeriah, the family of the Beriites.
26:45 Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites: ofMalchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah.
26:47 These are the families of the sons of Asher according to thosethat were numbered of them; who were fifty and three thousand and fourhundred.
26:48 Of the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, thefamily of the Jahzeelites: of Guni, the family of the Gunites: 
26:49 Of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites: of Shillem, the family of theShillemites.
26:50 These are the families of Naphtali according to their families:and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand andfour hundred.
26:51 These were the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundredthousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty.
26:52 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
26:53 Unto these the landshall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
26:54 To many thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to few thoushalt give the less inheritance: to every one shall his inheritance begiven according to those that were numbered of him.
26:55 Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lot: according tothe names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
26:56 According to the lot shall the possession thereof be dividedbetween many and few.
26:57 And these are they that were numbered of the Levites after theirfamilies: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites: of Kohath, thefamily of the Kohathites: of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
26:58 These are the families of the Levites: the family of theLibnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites,the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Kohathbegat Amram.
26:59 And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi,whom her mother bare to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaronand Moses, and Miriam their sister.
26:60 And unto Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
26:61 And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire beforethe LORD.
26:62 And those that were numbered of them were twenty and threethousand, all males from a month old and upward: for they were notnumbered among the children of Israel, because there was noinheritance given them among the children of Israel.
26:63 These are they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar thepriest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab byJordan near Jericho.
26:64 But among these there was not a man of them whom Moses and Aaronthe priest numbered, when they numbered the children of Israel in thewilderness of Sinai.
26:65 For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die in thewilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the sonof Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
27:1 Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the sonof Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families ofManasseh the son of Joseph: and these are the names of his daughters;Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
27:2 And they stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, andbefore the princes and all the congregation, by the door of thetabernacle of the congregation, saying, 
27:3 Our father died in thewilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gatheredthemselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah; but diedin his own sin, and had no sons.
27:4 Why should the name of our father be done away from among hisfamily, because he hath no son? Give unto us therefore a possessionamong the brethren of our father.
27:5 And Moses brought their cause before the LORD.
27:6 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
27:7 The daughters ofZelophehad speak right: thou shalt surely give them a possession of aninheritance among their father's brethren; and thou shalt cause theinheritance of their father to pass unto them.
27:8 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If aman die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to passunto his daughter.
27:9 And if he have no daughter, then ye shall give his inheritanceunto his brethren.
27:10 And if he have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritanceunto his father's brethren.
27:11 And if his father have no brethren, then ye shall give hisinheritance unto his kinsman that is next to him of his family, and heshall possess it: and it shall be unto the children of Israel astatute of judgment, as the LORD commanded Moses.
27:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Get thee up into this mountAbarim, and see the land which I have given unto the children ofIsrael.
27:13 And when thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered unto thypeople, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.
27:14 For ye rebelled against my commandment in the desert of Zin, inthe strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the water beforetheir eyes: that is the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wildernessof Zin.
27:15 And Moses spake unto the LORD, saying, 
27:16 Let the LORD, theGod of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation,
27:17 Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them,and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that thecongregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.
27:18 And the LORD said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, aman in whom is the spirit, and lay thine hand upon him; 
27:19 And sethim before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; andgive him a charge in their sight.
27:20 And thou shalt put some of thine honour upon him, that all thecongregation of the children of Israel may be obedient.
27:21 And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall askcounsel for him after the judgment of Urim before the LORD: at hisword shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he,and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.
27:22 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, andset him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
27:23 And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as theLORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
28:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
28:2 Command the childrenof Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for mysacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observeto offer unto me in their due season.
28:3 And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by firewhich ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first yearwithout spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
28:4 The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lambshalt thou offer at even; 
28:5 And a tenth part of an ephah of flourfor a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beatenoil.
28:6 It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mountSinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
28:7 And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hinfor the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wineto be poured unto the LORD for a drink offering.
28:8 And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offeringof the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offerit, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
28:9 And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot,and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil,and the drink offering thereof: 
28:10 This is the burnt offering ofevery sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drinkoffering.
28:11 And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burntoffering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambsof the first year without spot; 
28:12 And three tenth deals of flourfor a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenthdeals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
28:13 And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meatoffering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savour, asacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
28:14 And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto abullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part ofan hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every monththroughout the months of the year.
28:15 And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shallbe offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drinkoffering.
28:16 And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover ofthe LORD.
28:17 And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven daysshall unleavened bread be eaten.
28:18 In the first day shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do nomanner of servile work therein: 
28:19 But ye shall offer a sacrificemade by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks,and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto youwithout blemish: 
28:20 And their meat offering shall be of flourmingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, andtwo tenth deals for a ram; 
28:21 A several tenth deal shalt thou offerfor every lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 
28:22 And one goat for asin offering, to make an atonement for you.
28:23 Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning,which is for a continual burnt offering.
28:24 After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the sevendays, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour untothe LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, andhis drink offering.
28:25 And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; yeshall do no servile work.
28:26 Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meatoffering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holyconvocation; ye shall do no servile work: 
28:27 But ye shall offer theburnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks,one ram, seven lambs of the first year; 
28:28 And their meat offeringof flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, twotenth deals unto one ram, 
28:29 A several tenth deal unto one lamb,throughout the seven lambs; 
28:30 And one kid of the goats, to make anatonement for you.
28:31 Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and hismeat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and theirdrink offerings.
29:1 And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shallhave an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day ofblowing the trumpets unto you.
29:2 And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto theLORD; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first yearwithout blemish: 
29:3 And their meat offering shall be of flourmingled with oil, three tenth deals for a bullock, and two tenth dealsfor a ram, 
29:4 And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the sevenlambs: 
29:5 And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make anatonement for you: 
29:6 Beside the burnt offering of the month, andhis meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meatoffering, and their drink offerings, according unto their manner, fora sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
29:7 And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month an holyconvocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any worktherein: 
29:8 But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for asweet savour; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the firstyear; they shall be unto you without blemish: 
29:9 And their meatoffering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to abullock, and two tenth deals to one ram, 
29:10 A several tenth dealfor one lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 
29:11 One kid of the goatsfor a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and thecontinual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drinkofferings.
29:12 And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have anholy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep afeast unto the LORD seven days: 
29:13 And ye shall offer a burntoffering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD;thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the firstyear; they shall be without blemish: 
29:14 And their meat offeringshall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto everybullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth deals to each ram of thetwo rams, 
29:15 And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteenlambs: 
29:16 And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside thecontinual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
29:17 And on the second day ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, tworams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot: 
29:18 And theirmeat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for therams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after themanner: 
29:19 And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside thecontinual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and theirdrink offerings.
29:20 And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambsof the first year without blemish; 
29:21 And their meat offering andtheir drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for thelambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 
29:22 Andone goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, andhis meat offering, and his drink offering.
29:23 And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambsof the first year without blemish: 
29:24 Their meat offering and theirdrink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs,shall be according to their number, after the manner: 
29:25 And onekid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burntoffering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
29:26 And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambsof the first year without spot: 
29:27 And their meat offering andtheir drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for thelambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 
29:28 Andone goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, andhis meat offering, and his drink offering.
29:29 And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteenlambs of the first year without blemish: 
29:30 And their meat offeringand their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for thelambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 
29:31 Andone goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, hismeat offering, and his drink offering.
29:32 And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteenlambs of the first year without blemish: 
29:33 And their meat offeringand their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for thelambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 
29:34 Andone goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, hismeat offering, and his drink offering.
29:35 On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall dono servile work therein: 
29:36 But ye shall offer a burnt offering, asacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: one bullock,one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish: 
29:37 Theirmeat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram,and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after themanner: 
29:38 And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continualburnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
29:39 These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts,beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burntofferings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings,and for your peace offerings.
29:40 And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that theLORD commanded Moses.
30:1 And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes concerning thechildren of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD hathcommanded.
30:2 If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or swear an oath to bind hissoul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do accordingto all that proceedeth out of his mouth.
30:3 If a woman also vow a vow unto the LORD, and bind herself by abond, being in her father's house in her youth; 
30:4 And her fatherhear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and herfather shall hold his peace at her; then all her vows shall stand, andevery bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand.
30:5 But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth; notany of her vows, or of her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul,shall stand: and the LORD shall forgive her, because her fatherdisallowed her.
30:6 And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or utteredought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her soul; 
30:7 And herhusband heard it, and held his peace at her in the day that he heardit: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound hersoul shall stand.
30:8 But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he heard it;then he shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she utteredwith her lips, wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and theLORD shall forgive her.
30:9 But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewiththey have bound their souls, shall stand against her.
30:10 And if she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by abond with an oath; 
30:11 And her husband heard it, and held his peaceat her, and disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, andevery bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.
30:12 But if her husband hath utterly made them void on the day heheard them; then whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning hervows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husbandhath made them void; and the LORD shall forgive her.
30:13 Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, herhusband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.
30:14 But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day today; then he establisheth all her vows, or all her bonds, which areupon her: he confirmeth them, because he held his peace at her in theday that he heard them.
30:15 But if he shall any ways make them void after that he hath heardthem; then he shall bear her iniquity.
30:16 These are the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, betweena man and his wife, between the father and his daughter, being yet inher youth in her father's house.
31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
31:2 Avenge the childrenof Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thypeople.
31:3 And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm some of yourselvesunto the war, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge theLORD of Midian.
31:4 Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel,shall ye send to the war.
31:5 So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, athousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
31:6 And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand of every tribe, themand Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the holyinstruments, and the trumpets to blow in his hand.
31:7 And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commandedMoses; and they slew all the males.
31:8 And they slew the kings of Midian, beside the rest of them thatwere slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, fivekings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword.
31:9 And the children of Israel took all the women of Midian captives,and their little ones, and took the spoil of all their cattle, and alltheir flocks, and all their goods.
31:10 And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and alltheir goodly castles, with fire.
31:11 And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of men andof beasts.
31:12 And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, untoMoses, and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of thechildren of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are byJordan near Jericho.
31:13 And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of thecongregation, went forth to meet them without the camp.
31:14 And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, with thecaptains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, which came fromthe battle.
31:15 And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive?
31:16 Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counselof Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor,and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.
31:17 Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and killevery woman that hath known man by lying with him.
31:18 But all the women children, that have not known a man by lyingwith him, keep alive for yourselves.
31:19 And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hathkilled any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify bothyourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.
31:20 And purify all your raiment, and all that is made of skins, andall work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood.
31:21 And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went tothe battle, This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commandedMoses; 
31:22 Only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, thetin, and the lead, 
31:23 Every thing that may abide the fire, ye shallmake it go through the fire, and it shall be clean: nevertheless itshall be purified with the water of separation: and all that abidethnot the fire ye shall make go through the water.
31:24 And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shallbe clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.
31:25 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
31:26 Take the sum of theprey that was taken, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar thepriest, and the chief fathers of the congregation: 
31:27 And dividethe prey into two parts; between them that took the war upon them, whowent out to battle, and between all the congregation: 
31:28 And levy atribute unto the Lord of the men of war which went out to battle: onesoul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the beeves, and ofthe asses, and of the sheep: 
31:29 Take it of their half, and give itunto Eleazar the priest, for an heave offering of the LORD.
31:30 And of the children of Israel's half, thou shalt take oneportion of fifty, of the persons, of the beeves, of the asses, and ofthe flocks, of all manner of beasts, and give them unto the Levites,which keep the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD.
31:31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commandedMoses.
31:32 And the booty, being the rest of the prey which the men of warhad caught, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and fivethousand sheep, 
31:33 And threescore and twelve thousand beeves, 
31:34 And threescore and one thousand asses, 
31:35 And thirty and twothousand persons in all, of women that had not known man by lying withhim.
31:36 And the half, which was the portion of them that went out towar, was in number three hundred thousand and seven and thirtythousand and five hundred sheep: 
31:37 And the LORD's tribute of thesheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen.
31:38 And the beeves were thirty and six thousand; of which the LORD'stribute was threescore and twelve.
31:39 And the asses were thirty thousand and five hundred; of whichthe LORD's tribute was threescore and one.
31:40 And the persons were sixteen thousand; of which the LORD'stribute was thirty and two persons.
31:41 And Moses gave the tribute, which was the LORD's heave offering,unto Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Moses.
31:42 And of the children of Israel's half, which Moses divided fromthe men that warred, 
31:43 (Now the half that pertained unto thecongregation was three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seventhousand and five hundred sheep, 
31:44 And thirty and six thousandbeeves, 
31:45 And thirty thousand asses and five hundred, 
31:46 Andsixteen thousand persons;) 
31:47 Even of the children of Israel'shalf, Moses took one portion of fifty, both of man and of beast, andgave them unto the Levites, which kept the charge of the tabernacle ofthe LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
31:48 And the officers which were over thousands of the host, thecaptains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, came near unto Moses:
31:49 And they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of themen of war which are under our charge, and there lacketh not one manof us.
31:50 We have therefore brought an oblation for the LORD, what everyman hath gotten, of jewels of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings,earrings, and tablets, to make an atonement for our souls before theLORD.
31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, even allwrought jewels.
31:52 And all the gold of the offering that they offered up to theLORD, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds,was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels.
31:53 (For the men of war had taken spoil, every man for himself.)
31:54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captainsof thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tabernacle ofthe congregation, for a memorial for the children of Israel before theLORD.
32:1 Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a verygreat multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of Jazer, andthe land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle;
32:2 The children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spakeunto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of thecongregation, saying, 
32:3 Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah,and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon, 
32:4 Eventhe country which the LORD smote before the congregation of Israel, isa land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle: 
32:5 Wherefore, saidthey, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given untothy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.
32:6 And Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children ofReuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?  
32:7 And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel fromgoing over into the land which the LORD hath given them?  
32:8 Thusdid your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.
32:9 For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw theland, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that theyshould not go into the land which the LORD had given them.
32:10 And the LORD's anger was kindled the same time, and he sware,saying, 
32:11 Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, fromtwenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware untoAbraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not whollyfollowed me: 
32:12 Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, andJoshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.
32:13 And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he madethem wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation,that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.
32:14 And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers' stead, an increaseof sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD towardIsrael.
32:15 For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave themin the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.
32:16 And they came near unto him, and said, We will build sheepfoldshere for our cattle, and cities for our little ones: 
32:17 But weourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel, until wehave brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwell inthe fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
32:18 We will not return unto our houses, until the children of Israelhave inherited every man his inheritance.
32:19 For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan, orforward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordaneastward.
32:20 And Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye willgo armed before the LORD to war, 
32:21 And will go all of you armedover Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies frombefore him, 
32:22 And the land be subdued before the LORD: thenafterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, andbefore Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
32:23 But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against theLORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.
32:24 Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep;and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.
32:25 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake untoMoses, saying, Thy servants will do as my lord commandeth.
32:26 Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle,shall be there in the cities of Gilead: 
32:27 But thy servants willpass over, every man armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as mylord saith.
32:28 So concerning them Moses commanded Eleazar the priest, andJoshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of thechildren of Israel: 
32:29 And Moses said unto them, If the children ofGad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, everyman armed to battle, before the LORD, and the land shall be subduedbefore you; then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for apossession: 
32:30 But if they will not pass over with you armed, theyshall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.
32:31 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered,saying, As the LORD hath said unto thy servants, so will we do.
32:32 We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan,that the possession of our inheritance on this side Jordan may beours.
32:33 And Moses gave unto them, even to the children of Gad, and tothe children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh the son ofJoseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom ofOg king of Bashan, the land, with the cities thereof in the coasts,even the cities of the country round about.
32:34 And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
32:35 And Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah, 
32:36 AndBethnimrah, and Bethharan, fenced cities: and folds for sheep.
32:37 And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, andKirjathaim, 
32:38 And Nebo, and Baalmeon, (their names being changed,)and Shibmah: and gave other names unto the cities which they builded.
32:39 And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead,and took it, and dispossessed the Amorite which was in it.
32:40 And Moses gave Gilead unto Machir the son of Manasseh; and hedwelt therein.
32:41 And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the small townsthereof, and called them Havothjair.
32:42 And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages thereof, andcalled it Nobah, after his own name.
33:1 These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which wentforth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand ofMoses and Aaron.
33:2 And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys bythe commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according totheir goings out.
33:3 And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on thefifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover thechildren of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all theEgyptians.
33:4 For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the LORD hadsmitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
33:5 And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched inSuccoth.
33:6 And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is inthe edge of the wilderness.
33:7 And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth,which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.
33:8 And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through themidst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey inthe wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
33:9 And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim weretwelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and theypitched there.
33:10 And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.
33:11 And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in thewilderness of Sin.
33:12 And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, andencamped in Dophkah.
33:13 And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
33:14 And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where wasno water for the people to drink.
33:15 And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wildernessof Sinai.
33:16 And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched atKibrothhattaavah.
33:17 And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped atHazeroth.
33:18 And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.
33:19 And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.
33:20 And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.
33:21 And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.
33:22 And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.
33:23 And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.
33:24 And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.
33:25 And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.
33:26 And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.
33:27 And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.
33:28 And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.
33:29 And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.
33:30 And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.
33:31 And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.
33:32 And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.
33:33 And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.
33:34 And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.
33:35 And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.
33:36 And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wildernessof Zin, which is Kadesh.
33:37 And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in theedge of the land of Edom.
33:38 And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandmentof the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the childrenof Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of thefifth month.
33:39 And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when hedied in mount Hor.
33:40 And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in theland of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
33:41 And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.
33:42 And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.
33:43 And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.
33:44 And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in theborder of Moab.
33:45 And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.
33:46 And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.
33:47 And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in themountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
33:48 And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched inthe plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.
33:49 And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even untoAbelshittim in the plains of Moab.
33:50 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordannear Jericho, saying, 
33:51 Speak unto the children of Israel, and sayunto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
33:52 Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land frombefore you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all theirmolten images, and quite pluck down all their high places: 
33:53 Andye shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein:for I have given you the land to possess it.
33:54 And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance amongyour families: and to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, andto the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man'sinheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according tothe tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit.
33:55 But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land frombefore you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remainof them shall be pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, andshall vex you in the land wherein ye dwell.
33:56 Moreover it shall come to pass, that I shall do unto you, as Ithought to do unto them.
34:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
34:2 Command the childrenof Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land of Canaan;(this is the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, eventhe land of Canaan with the coasts thereof:) 
34:3 Then your southquarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the coast ofEdom, and your south border shall be the outmost coast of the salt seaeastward: 
34:4 And your border shall turn from the south to the ascentof Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin: and the going forth thereof shall befrom the south to Kadeshbarnea, and shall go on to Hazaraddar, andpass on to Azmon: 
34:5 And the border shall fetch a compass from Azmonunto the river of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
34:6 And as for the western border, ye shall even have the great seafor a border: this shall be your west border.
34:7 And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shallpoint out for you mount Hor: 
34:8 From mount Hor ye shall point outyour border unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings forth of theborder shall be to Zedad: 
34:9 And the border shall go on to Ziphron,and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be yournorth border.
34:10 And ye shall point out your east border from Hazarenan toShepham: 
34:11 And the coast shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, onthe east side of Ain; and the border shall descend, and shall reachunto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward: 
34:12 And the bordershall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the saltsea: this shall be your land with the coasts thereof round about.
34:13 And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is theland which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to giveunto the nine tribes, and to the half tribe: 
34:14 For the tribe ofthe children of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, andthe tribe of the children of Gad according to the house of theirfathers, have received their inheritance; and half the tribe ofManasseh have received their inheritance: 
34:15 The two tribes and thehalf tribe have received their inheritance on this side Jordan nearJericho eastward, toward the sunrising.
34:16 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
34:17 These are the namesof the men which shall divide the land unto you: Eleazar the priest,and Joshua the son of Nun.
34:18 And ye shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the landby inheritance.
34:19 And the names of the men are these: Of the tribe of Judah, Calebthe son of Jephunneh.
34:20 And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son ofAmmihud.
34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
34:22 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki theson of Jogli.
34:23 The prince of the children of Joseph, for the tribe of thechildren of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
34:24 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Ephraim, Kemuelthe son of Shiphtan.
34:25 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Zebulun,Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
34:26 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltielthe son of Azzan.
34:27 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud theson of Shelomi.
34:28 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahelthe son of Ammihud.
34:29 These are they whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritanceunto the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.
35:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordannear Jericho, saying, 
35:2 Command the children of Israel, that theygive unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities todwell in; and ye shall give also unto the Levites suburbs for thecities round about them.
35:3 And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and the suburbs ofthem shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and for all theirbeasts.
35:4 And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give unto theLevites, shall reach from the wall of the city and outward a thousandcubits round about.
35:5 And ye shall measure from without the city on the east side twothousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on thewest side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousandcubits; and the city shall be in the midst: this shall be to them thesuburbs of the cities.
35:6 And among the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites thereshall be six cities for refuge, which ye shall appoint for themanslayer, that he may flee thither: and to them ye shall add fortyand two cities.
35:7 So all the cities which ye shall give to the Levites shall beforty and eight cities: them shall ye give with their suburbs.
35:8 And the cities which ye shall give shall be of the possession ofthe children of Israel: from them that have many ye shall give many;but from them that have few ye shall give few: every one shall give ofhis cities unto the Levites according to his inheritance which heinheriteth.
35:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
35:10 Speak unto thechildren of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come over Jordaninto the land of Canaan; 
35:11 Then ye shall appoint you cities to becities of refuge for you; that the slayer may flee thither, whichkilleth any person at unawares.
35:12 And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the avenger;that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation injudgment.
35:13 And of these cities which ye shall give six cities shall ye havefor refuge.
35:14 Ye shall give three cities on this side Jordan, and three citiesshall ye give in the land of Canaan, which shall be cities of refuge.
35:15 These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children ofIsrael, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them: thatevery one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither.
35:16 And if he smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die,he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
35:17 And if he smite him with throwing a stone, wherewith he may die,and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put todeath.
35:18 Or if he smite him with an hand weapon of wood, wherewith he maydie, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put todeath.
35:19 The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer: when hemeeteth him, he shall slay him.
35:20 But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying ofwait, that he die; 
35:21 Or in enmity smite him with his hand, that hedie: he that smote him shall surely be put to death; for he is amurderer: the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when hemeeteth him.
35:22 But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or have cast uponhim any thing without laying of wait, 
35:23 Or with any stone,wherewith a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him, that hedie, and was not his enemy, neither sought his harm: 
35:24 Then thecongregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of bloodaccording to these judgments: 
35:25 And the congregation shall deliverthe slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and thecongregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither hewas fled: and he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest,which was anointed with the holy oil.
35:26 But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border ofthe city of his refuge, whither he was fled; 
35:27 And the revenger ofblood find him without the borders of the city of his refuge, and therevenger of blood kill the slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood:
35:28 Because he should have remained in the city of his refuge untilthe death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priestthe slayer shall return into the land of his possession.
35:29 So these things shall be for a statute of judgment unto youthroughout your generations in all your dwellings.
35:30 Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be put to death bythe mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against anyperson to cause him to die.
35:31 Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of amurderer, which is guilty of death: but he shall be surely put todeath.
35:32 And ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to thecity of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land,until the death of the priest.
35:33 So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye are: for blood itdefileth the land: and the land cannot be cleansed of the blood thatis shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.
35:34 Defile not therefore the land which ye shall inhabit, wherein Idwell: for I the LORD dwell among the children of Israel.
36:1 And the chief fathers of the families of the children of Gilead,the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons ofJoseph, came near, and spake before Moses, and before the princes, thechief fathers of the children of Israel: 
36:2 And they said, The LORDcommanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to thechildren of Israel: and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give theinheritance of Zelophehad our brother unto his daughters.
36:3 And if they be married to any of the sons of the other tribes ofthe children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken from theinheritance of our fathers, and shall be put to the inheritance of thetribe whereunto they are received: so shall it be taken from the lotof our inheritance.
36:4 And when the jubile of the children of Israel shall be, thenshall their inheritance be put unto the inheritance of the tribewhereunto they are received: so shall their inheritance be taken awayfrom the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
36:5 And Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the wordof the LORD, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well.
36:6 This is the thing which the LORD doth command concerning thedaughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they thinkbest; only to the family of the tribe of their father shall theymarry.
36:7 So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel removefrom tribe to tribe: for every one of the children of Israel shallkeep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
36:8 And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribeof the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of thetribe of her father, that the children of Israel may enjoy every manthe inheritance of his fathers.
36:9 Neither shall the inheritance remove from one tribe to anothertribe; but every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shallkeep himself to his own inheritance.
36:10 Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the daughters ofZelophehad: 
36:11 For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, andNoah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their father'sbrothers' sons: 
36:12 And they were married into the families of thesons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained inthe tribe of the family of their father.
36:13 These are the commandments and the judgments, which the LORDcommanded by the hand of Moses unto the children of Israel in theplains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.