1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning Edom;We have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent amongthe heathen, Arise ye, and let us rise up against her in battle.
1:2 Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen: thou art greatlydespised.
1:3 The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest inthe clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; that saith in hisheart, Who shall bring me down to the ground?  
1:4 Though thou exaltthyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars,thence will I bring thee down, saith the LORD.
1:5 If thieves came to thee, if robbers by night, (how art thou cutoff!)  would they not have stolen till they had enough? if thegrapegatherers came to thee, would they not leave some grapes?  
1:6 How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hidden thingssought up!  
1:7 All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee evento the border: the men that were at peace with thee have deceivedthee, and prevailed against thee; that they eat thy bread have laid awound under thee: there is none understanding in him.
1:8 Shall I not in that day, saith the LORD, even destroy the wise menout of Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?  
1:9 And thymighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that every one ofthe mount of Esau may be cut off by slaughter.
1:10 For thy violence against thy brother Jacob shame shall coverthee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever.
1:11 In the day that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day thatthe strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners enteredinto his gates, and cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one ofthem.
1:12 But thou shouldest not have looked on the day of thy brother inthe day that he became a stranger; neither shouldest thou haverejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction;neither shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress.
1:13 Thou shouldest not have entered into the gate of my people in theday of their calamity; yea, thou shouldest not have looked on theiraffliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on theirsubstance in the day of their calamity; 
1:14 Neither shouldest thouhave stood in the crossway, to cut off those of his that did escape;neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remainin the day of distress.
1:15 For the day of the LORD is near upon all the heathen: as thouhast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall return uponthine own head.
1:16 For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all theheathen drink continually, yea, they shall drink, and they shallswallow down, and they shall be as though they had not been.
1:17 But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall beholiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.
1:18 And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph aflame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle inthem, and devour them; and there shall not be any remaining of thehouse of Esau; for the LORD hath spoken it.
1:19 And they of the south shall possess the mount of Esau; and theyof the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields ofEphraim, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.
1:20 And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel shallpossess that of the Canaanites, even unto Zarephath; and the captivityof Jerusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possess the cities of thesouth.
1:21 And saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge the mount ofEsau; and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.