1:1 Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that therewas a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehemjudah went tosojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
1:2 And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wifeNaomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites ofBethlehemjudah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continuedthere.
1:3 And Elimelech Naomi's husband died; and she was left, and her twosons.
1:4 And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the onewas Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelled thereabout ten years.
1:5 And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of them; and the woman wasleft of her two sons and her husband.
1:6 Then she arose with her daughters in law, that she might returnfrom the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab howthat the LORD had visited his people in giving them bread.
1:7 Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and hertwo daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to return untothe land of Judah.
1:8 And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return each toher mother's house: the LORD deal kindly with you, as ye have dealtwith the dead, and with me.
1:9 The LORD grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the houseof her husband. Then she kissed them; and they lifted up their voice,and wept.
1:10 And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thypeople.
1:11 And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me?are there yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be yourhusbands?  
1:12 Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am tooold to have an husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should havean husband also to night, and should also bear sons; 
1:13 Would yetarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay for them fromhaving husbands? nay, my daughters; for it grieveth me much for yoursakes that the hand of the LORD is gone out against me.
1:14 And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissedher mother in law; but Ruth clave unto her.
1:15 And she said, Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto herpeople, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister in law.
1:16 And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return fromfollowing after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and wherethou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy Godmy God: 
1:17 Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried:the LORD do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee andme.
1:18 When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, thenshe left speaking unto her.
1:19 So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came topass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was movedabout them, and they said, Is this Naomi?  
1:20 And she said untothem, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara: for the Almighty hath dealtvery bitterly with me.
1:21 I went out full and the LORD hath brought me home again empty:why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the LORD hath testified against me,and the Almighty hath afflicted me?  
1:22 So Naomi returned, and Ruththe Moabitess, her daughter in law, with her, which returned out ofthe country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning ofbarley harvest.
2:1 And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of wealth,of the family of Elimelech; and his name was Boaz.
2:2 And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, Let me now go to thefield, and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall findgrace.And she said unto her, Go, my daughter.
2:3 And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after thereapers: and her hap was to light on a part of the field belongingunto Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech.
2:4 And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers,The LORD be with you. And they answered him, The LORD bless thee.
2:5 Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers,Whose damsel is this?  
2:6 And the servant that was set over thereapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came backwith Naomi out of the country of Moab: 
2:7 And she said, I pray you,let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves: so shecame, and hath continued even from the morning until now, that shetarried a little in the house.
2:8 Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go not toglean in another field, neither go from hence, but abide here fast bymy maidens: 
2:9 Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, andgo thou after them: have I not charged the young men that they shallnot touch thee? and when thou art athirst, go unto the vessels, anddrink of that which the young men have drawn.
2:10 Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, andsaid unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thoushouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger?  
2:11 And Boazanswered and said unto her, It hath fully been shewed me, all thatthou hast done unto thy mother in law since the death of thinehusband: and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother, and theland of thy nativity, and art come unto a people which thou knewestnot heretofore.
2:12 The LORD recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee ofthe LORD God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust.
2:13 Then she said, Let me find favour in thy sight, my lord; for thatthou hast comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken friendly untothine handmaid, though I be not like unto one of thine handmaidens.
2:14 And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime come thou hither, and eat ofthe bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside thereapers: and he reached her parched corn, and she did eat, and wassufficed, and left.
2:15 And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men,saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not:
2:16 And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, andleave them, that she may glean them, and rebuke her not.
2:17 So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that she hadgleaned: and it was about an ephah of barley.
2:18 And she took it up, and went into the city: and her mother in lawsaw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth, and gave to her thatshe had reserved after she was sufficed.
2:19 And her mother in law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned today?  and where wroughtest thou? blessed be he that did take knowledgeof thee. And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought,and said, The man's name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz.
2:20 And Naomi said unto her daughter in law, Blessed be he of theLORD, who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to thedead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is near of kin unto us, one ofour next kinsmen.
2:21 And Ruth the Moabitess said, He said unto me also, Thou shaltkeep fast by my young men, until they have ended all my harvest.
2:22 And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter in law, It is good, mydaughter, that thou go out with his maidens, that they meet thee notin any other field.
2:23 So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end ofbarley harvest and of wheat harvest; and dwelt with her mother in law.
3:1 Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her, My daughter, shall Inot seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?  
3:2 And now isnot Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast?  Behold, hewinnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor.
3:3 Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment uponthee, and get thee down to the floor: but make not thyself known untothe man, until he shall have done eating and drinking.
3:4 And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark theplace where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in, and uncover his feet,and lay thee down; and he will tell thee what thou shalt do.
3:5 And she said unto her, All that thou sayest unto me I will do.
3:6 And she went down unto the floor, and did according to all thather mother in law bade her.
3:7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, hewent to lie down at the end of the heap of corn: and she came softly,and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
3:8 And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, andturned himself: and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.
3:9 And he said, Who art thou? And she answered, I am Ruth thinehandmaid: spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid; for thou arta near kinsman.
3:10 And he said, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my daughter: for thouhast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning,inasmuch as thou followedst not young men, whether poor or rich.
3:11 And now, my daughter, fear not; I will do to thee all that thourequirest: for all the city of my people doth know that thou art avirtuous woman.
3:12 And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman: howbeit there is akinsman nearer than I.
3:13 Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he willperform unto thee the part of a kinsman, well; let him do thekinsman's part: but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee,then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee, as the LORD liveth: liedown until the morning.
3:14 And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up beforeone could know another. And he said, Let it not be known that a womancame into the floor.
3:15 Also he said, Bring the vail that thou hast upon thee, and holdit.And when she held it, he measured six measures of barley, and laid iton her: and she went into the city.
3:16 And when she came to her mother in law, she said, Who art thou,my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done to her.
3:17 And she said, These six measures of barley gave he me; for hesaid to me, Go not empty unto thy mother in law.
3:18 Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how thematter will fall: for the man will not be in rest, until he havefinished the thing this day.
4:1 Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and,behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he said, Ho,such a one! turn aside, sit down here. And he turned aside, and satdown.
4:2 And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit yedown here. And they sat down.
4:3 And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of thecountry of Moab, selleth a parcel of land, which was our brotherElimelech's: 
4:4 And I thought to advertise thee, saying, Buy itbefore the inhabitants, and before the elders of my people. If thouwilt redeem it, redeem it: but if thou wilt not redeem it, then tellme, that I may know: for there is none to redeem it beside thee; and Iam after thee. And he said, I will redeem it.
4:5 Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand ofNaomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of thedead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance.
4:6 And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I marmine own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself; for I cannotredeem it.
4:7 Now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerningredeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things; a manplucked off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbour: and this was atestimony in Israel.
4:8 Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drewoff his shoe.
4:9 And Boaz said unto the elders, and unto all the people, Ye arewitnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, andall that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, of the hand of Naomi.
4:10 Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchasedto be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance,that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, andfrom the gate of his place: ye are witnesses this day.
4:11 And all the people that were in the gate, and the elders, said,We are witnesses. The LORD make the woman that is come into thinehouse like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house ofIsrael: and do thou worthily in Ephratah, and be famous in Bethlehem:
4:12 And let thy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bareunto Judah, of the seed which the LORD shall give thee of this youngwoman.
4:13 So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in untoher, the LORD gave her conception, and she bare a son.
4:14 And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the LORD, which hathnot left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famousin Israel.
4:15 And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourisherof thine old age: for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which isbetter to thee than seven sons, hath born him.
4:16 And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and becamenurse unto it.
4:17 And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is ason born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he is the father ofJesse, the father of David.
4:18 Now these are the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
4:19 And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab, 
4:20 And Amminadabbegat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon, 
4:21 And Salmon begat Boaz,and Boaz begat Obed, 
4:22 And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.