1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which wehave seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands havehandled, of the Word of life; 
1:2 (For the life was manifested, and wehave seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life,which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;) 
1:3 That whichwe have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may havefellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, andwith his Son Jesus Christ.
1:4 And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.
1:5 This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declareunto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness,we lie, and do not the truth: 
1:7 But if we walk in the light, as heis in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood ofJesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.
1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truthis not in us.
1:9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us oursins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and hisword is not in us.
2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sinnot.And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christthe righteous: 
2:2 And he is the propitiation for our sins: and notfor our's only, but also for the sins of the whole world.
2:3 And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep hiscommandments.
2:4 He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is aliar, and the truth is not in him.
2:5 But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of Godperfected: hereby know we that we are in him.
2:6 He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk,even as he walked.
2:7 Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an oldcommandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment isthe word which ye have heard from the beginning.
2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true inhim and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light nowshineth.
2:9 He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is indarkness even until now.
2:10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there isnone occasion of stumbling in him.
2:11 But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh indarkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hathblinded his eyes.
2:12 I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgivenyou for his name's sake.
2:13 I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is fromthe beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcomethe wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye haveknown the Father.
2:14 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him thatis from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because yeare strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcomethe wicked one.
2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Ifany man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
2:16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lustof the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is ofthe world.
2:17 And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he thatdoeth the will of God abideth for ever.
2:18 Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard thatantichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby weknow that it is the last time.
2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they hadbeen of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they wentout, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.
2:20 But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.
2:21 I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, butbecause ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth.
2:22 Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He isantichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son.
2:23 Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he thatacknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also.
2:24 Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from thebeginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remainin you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father.
2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternallife.
2:26 These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduceyou.
2:27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you,and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointingteacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even asit hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.
2:28 And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shallappear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at hiscoming.
2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one thatdoeth righteousness is born of him.
3:1 Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, thatwe should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth usnot, because it knew him not.
3:2 Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appearwhat we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall belike him; for we shall see him as he is.
3:3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, evenas he is pure.
3:4 Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin isthe transgression of the law.
3:5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and inhim is no sin.
3:6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath notseen him, neither known him.
3:7 Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doethrighteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth fromthe beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that hemight destroy the works of the devil.
3:9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seedremaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
3:10 In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of thedevil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither hethat loveth not his brother.
3:11 For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that weshould love one another.
3:12 Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother.And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and hisbrother's righteous.
3:13 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.
3:14 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we lovethe brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.
3:15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that nomurderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
3:16 Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his lifefor us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
3:17 But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother haveneed, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleththe love of God in him?  
3:18 My little children, let us not love inword, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.
3:19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure ourhearts before him.
3:20 For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, andknoweth all things.
3:21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidencetoward God.
3:22 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep hiscommandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.
3:23 And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the nameof his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave uscommandment.
3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he inhim.And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hathgiven us.
4:1 Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whetherthey are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into theworld.
4:2 Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseththat Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: 
4:3 And every spiritthat confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not ofGod: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard thatit should come; and even now already is it in the world.
4:4 Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: becausegreater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.
4:5 They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and theworld heareth them.
4:6 We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not ofGod heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spiritof error.
4:7 Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and everyone that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God.
4:8 He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love.
4:9 In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that Godsent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live throughhim.
4:10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, andsent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.
4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, Goddwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
4:13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because hehath given us of his Spirit.
4:14 And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son tobe the Saviour of the world.
4:15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, Goddwelleth in him, and he in God.
4:16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. Godis love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.
4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in theday of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.
4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear:because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect inlove.
4:19 We love him, because he first loved us.
4:20 If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar:for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he loveGod whom he hath not seen?  
4:21 And this commandment have we fromhim, That he who loveth God love his brother also.
5:1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: andevery one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begottenof him.
5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we loveGod, and keep his commandments.
5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: andhis commandments are not grievous.
5:4 For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this isthe victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.
5:5 Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth thatJesus is the Son of God?  
5:6 This is he that came by water and blood,even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And itis the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.
5:7 For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, theWord, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one.
5:8 And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, andthe water, and the blood: and these three agree in one.
5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater:for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son.
5:10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself:he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believethnot the record that God gave of his Son.
5:11 And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life,and this life is in his Son.
5:12 He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son ofGod hath not life.
5:13 These things have I written unto you that believe on the name ofthe Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and thatye may believe on the name of the Son of God.
5:14 And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we askany thing according to his will, he heareth us: 
5:15 And if we knowthat he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitionsthat we desired of him.
5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, heshall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not untodeath. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that he shall pray forit.
5:17 All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death.
5:18 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that isbegotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.
5:19 And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth inwickedness.
5:20 And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us anunderstanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in himthat is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, andeternal life.
5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.