1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scatteredthroughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 
1:2 Electaccording to the foreknowledge of God the Father, throughsanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of theblood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.
1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, whichaccording to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a livelyhope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 
1:4 To aninheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away,reserved in heaven for you, 
1:5 Who are kept by the power of Godthrough faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
1:6 Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be,ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations: 
1:7 That the trialof your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth,though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honourand glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ: 
1:8 Whom having not seen,ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoicewith joy unspeakable and full of glory: 
1:9 Receiving the end of yourfaith, even the salvation of your souls.
1:10 Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searcheddiligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:
1:11 Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ whichwas in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferingsof Christ, and the glory that should follow.
1:12 Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto usthey did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by themthat have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent downfrom heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.
1:13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope tothe end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelationof Jesus Christ; 
1:14 As obedient children, not fashioning yourselvesaccording to the former lusts in your ignorance: 
1:15 But as he whichhath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation;
1:16 Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.
1:17 And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of personsjudgeth according to every man's work, pass the time of yoursojourning here in fear: 
1:18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were notredeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vainconversation received by tradition from your fathers; 
1:19 But withthe precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and withoutspot: 
1:20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of theworld, but was manifest in these last times for you, 
1:21 Who by himdo believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave himglory; that your faith and hope might be in God.
1:22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth throughthe Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love oneanother with a pure heart fervently: 
1:23 Being born again, not ofcorruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, whichliveth and abideth for ever.
1:24 For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flowerof grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:
1:25 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the wordwhich by the gospel is preached unto you.
2:1 Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies,and envies, all evil speakings, 
2:2 As newborn babes, desire thesincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: 
2:3 If so be yehave tasted that the Lord is gracious.
2:4 To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men,but chosen of God, and precious, 
2:5 Ye also, as lively stones, arebuilt up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritualsacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.
2:6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay inSion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth onhim shall not be confounded.
2:7 Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto themwhich be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, thesame is made the head of the corner, 
2:8 And a stone of stumbling, anda rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, beingdisobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.
2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holynation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises ofhim who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light;
2:10 Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people ofGod: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
2:11 Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstainfrom fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 
2:12 Having yourconversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speakagainst you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which theyshall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.
2:13 Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake:whether it be to the king, as supreme; 
2:14 Or unto governors, as untothem that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for thepraise of them that do well.
2:15 For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put tosilence the ignorance of foolish men: 
2:16 As free, and not using yourliberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God.
2:17 Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.
2:18 Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only tothe good and gentle, but also to the froward.
2:19 For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward Godendure grief, suffering wrongfully.
2:20 For what glory is it, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, yeshall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it,ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.
2:21 For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also sufferedfor us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps: 
2:22 Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: 
2:23 Who, whenhe was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatenednot; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously: 
2:24 Whohis own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, beingdead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye werehealed.
2:25 For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto theShepherd and Bishop of your souls.
3:1 Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that,if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by theconversation of the wives; 
3:2 While they behold your chasteconversation coupled with fear.
3:3 Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting thehair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel; 
3:4 But letit be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible,even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight ofGod of great price.
3:5 For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, whotrusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their ownhusbands: 
3:6 Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whosedaughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with anyamazement.
3:7 Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge,giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as beingheirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be nothindered.
3:8 Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another,love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous: 
3:9 Not rendering evil forevil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing thatye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing.
3:10 For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrainhis tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile: 
3:11 Lethim eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.
3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears areopen unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them thatdo evil.
3:13 And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of thatwhich is good?  
3:14 But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake,happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled;
3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always togive an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope thatis in you with meekness and fear: 
3:16 Having a good conscience; that,whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamedthat falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ.
3:17 For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer forwell doing, than for evil doing.
3:18 For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for theunjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in theflesh, but quickened by the Spirit: 
3:19 By which also he went andpreached unto the spirits in prison; 
3:20 Which sometime weredisobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days ofNoah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight soulswere saved by water.
3:21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (notthe putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a goodconscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ: 
3:22 Whois gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels andauthorities and powers being made subject unto him.
4:1 Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, armyourselves likewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered inthe flesh hath ceased from sin; 
4:2 That he no longer should live therest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will ofGod.
4:3 For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought thewill of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excessof wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries: 
4:4 Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the sameexcess of riot, speaking evil of you: 
4:5 Who shall give account tohim that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.
4:6 For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that aredead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, butlive according to God in the spirit.
4:7 But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, andwatch unto prayer.
4:8 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: forcharity shall cover the multitude of sins.
4:9 Use hospitality one to another without grudging.
4:10 As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the sameone to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
4:11 If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any manminister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that Godin all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praiseand dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
4:12 Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which isto try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you: 
4:13 Butrejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings; that,when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceedingjoy.
4:14 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for thespirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evilspoken of, but on your part he is glorified.
4:15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as anevildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters.
4:16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; butlet him glorify God on this behalf.
4:17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house ofGod: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them thatobey not the gospel of God?  
4:18 And if the righteous scarcely besaved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?  
4:19 Whereforelet them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keepingof their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.
5:1 The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, anda witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of theglory that shall be revealed: 
5:2 Feed the flock of God which is amongyou, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly;not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; 
5:3 Neither as being lordsover God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.
5:4 And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crownof glory that fadeth not away.
5:5 Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, allof you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: forGod resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.
5:6 Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that hemay exalt you in due time: 
5:7 Casting all your care upon him; for hecareth for you.
5:8 Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as aroaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: 
5:9 Whomresist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions areaccomplished in your brethren that are in the world.
5:10 But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternalglory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make youperfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.
5:11 To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
5:12 By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I havewritten briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true graceof God wherein ye stand.
5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you,saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son.
5:14 Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with youall that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.