1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of theThessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ:Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord JesusChrist.
1:2 We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you inour prayers; 
1:3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, andlabour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in thesight of God and our Father; 
1:4 Knowing, brethren beloved, yourelection of God.
1:5 For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power,and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; as ye know what mannerof men we were among you for your sake.
1:6 And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having receivedthe word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost.
1:7 So that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia andAchaia.
1:8 For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only inMacedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God-wardis spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.
1:9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we hadunto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living andtrue God; 
1:10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raisedfrom the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come.
2:1 For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that itwas not in vain: 
2:2 But even after that we had suffered before, andwere shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold inour God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention.
2:3 For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor inguile: 
2:4 But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with thegospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which triethour hearts.
2:5 For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nora cloke of covetousness; God is witness: 
2:6 Nor of men sought weglory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have beenburdensome, as the apostles of Christ.
2:7 But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth herchildren: 
2:8 So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willingto have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also ourown souls, because ye were dear unto us.
2:9 For ye remember, brethren, our labour and travail: for labouringnight and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, wepreached unto you the gospel of God.
2:10 Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly andunblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe: 
2:11 As yeknow how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as afather doth his children, 
2:12 That ye would walk worthy of God, whohath called you unto his kingdom and glory.
2:13 For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, whenye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it notas the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, whicheffectually worketh also in you that believe.
2:14 For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God whichin Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like thingsof your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews: 
2:15 Who bothkilled the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us;and they please not God, and are contrary to all men: 
2:16 Forbiddingus to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up theirsins alway: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.
2:17 But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time inpresence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to see yourface with great desire.
2:18 Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once andagain; but Satan hindered us.
2:19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not evenye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?  
2:20 Forye are our glory and joy.
3:1 Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good tobe left at Athens alone; 
3:2 And sent Timotheus, our brother, andminister of God, and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Christ, toestablish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith: 
3:3 That noman should be moved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that weare appointed thereunto.
3:4 For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that weshould suffer tribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.
3:5 For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to knowyour faith, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and ourlabour be in vain.
3:6 But now when Timotheus came from you unto us, and brought us goodtidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembranceof us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you: 
3:7 Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our afflictionand distress by your faith: 
3:8 For now we live, if ye stand fast inthe Lord.
3:9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all thejoy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God; 
3:10 Night and daypraying exceedingly that we might see your face, and might perfectthat which is lacking in your faith?  
3:11 Now God himself and ourFather, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.
3:12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one towardanother, and toward all men, even as we do toward you: 
3:13 To the endhe may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, evenour Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all hissaints.
4:1 Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by theLord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and toplease God, so ye would abound more and more.
4:2 For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus.
4:3 For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that yeshould abstain from fornication: 
4:4 That every one of you should knowhow to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour; 
4:5 Not in thelust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God: 
4:6 That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: becausethat the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarnedyou and testified.
4:7 For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.
4:8 He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hathalso given unto us his holy Spirit.
4:9 But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you:for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another.
4:10 And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in allMacedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more andmore; 
4:11 And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business,and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you; 
4:12 That ye maywalk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lackof nothing.
4:13 But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerningthem which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which haveno hope.
4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so themalso which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.
4:15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we whichare alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not preventthem which are asleep.
4:16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, withthe voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead inChrist shall rise first: 
4:17 Then we which are alive and remain shallbe caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in theair: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
4:18 Wherefore comfort one another with these words.
5:1 But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that Iwrite unto you.
5:2 For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comethas a thief in the night.
5:3 For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destructioncometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shallnot escape.
5:4 But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day shouldovertake you as a thief.
5:5 Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: weare not of the night, nor of darkness.
5:6 Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and besober.
5:7 For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunkenare drunken in the night.
5:8 But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on thebreastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope ofsalvation.
5:9 For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation byour Lord Jesus Christ, 
5:10 Who died for us, that, whether we wake orsleep, we should live together with him.
5:11 Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another,even as also ye do.
5:12 And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour amongyou, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you; 
5:13 And toesteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peaceamong yourselves.
5:14 Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfortthe feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men.
5:15 See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever followthat which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men.
5:16 Rejoice evermore.
5:17 Pray without ceasing.
5:18 In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in ChristJesus concerning you.
5:19 Quench not the Spirit.
5:20 Despise not prophesyings.
5:21 Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
5:22 Abstain from all appearance of evil.
5:23 And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray Godyour whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto thecoming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
5:24 Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.
5:25 Brethren, pray for us.
5:26 Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss.
5:27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all theholy brethren.
5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.