1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothyour brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all thesaints which are in all Achaia: 
1:2 Grace be to you and peace from Godour Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, theFather of mercies, and the God of all comfort; 
1:4 Who comforteth usin all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which arein any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted ofGod.
1:5 For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolationalso aboundeth by Christ.
1:6 And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation andsalvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferingswhich we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for yourconsolation and salvation.
1:7 And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as ye are partakersof the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.
1:8 For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble whichcame to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, abovestrength, insomuch that we despaired even of life: 
1:9 But we had thesentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves,but in God which raiseth the dead: 
1:10 Who delivered us from so greata death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yet deliverus; 
1:11 Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the giftbestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given bymany on our behalf.
1:12 For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, thatin simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by thegrace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and moreabundantly to you-ward.
1:13 For we write none other things unto you, than what ye read oracknowledge; and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end; 
1:14 Asalso ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, evenas ye also are our's in the day of the Lord Jesus.
1:15 And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before, thatye might have a second benefit; 
1:16 And to pass by you intoMacedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you tobe brought on my way toward Judaea.
1:17 When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? or thethings that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that withme there should be yea yea, and nay nay?  
1:18 But as God is true, ourword toward you was not yea and nay.
1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you byus, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but inhim was yea.
1:20 For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, untothe glory of God by us.
1:21 Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointedus, is God; 
1:22 Who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of theSpirit in our hearts.
1:23 Moreover I call God for a record upon my soul, that to spare youI came not as yet unto Corinth.
1:24 Not for that we have dominion over your faith, but are helpers ofyour joy: for by faith ye stand.
2:1 But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again toyou in heaviness.
2:2 For if I make you sorry, who is he then that maketh me glad, butthe same which is made sorry by me?  
2:3 And I wrote this same untoyou, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I oughtto rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy ofyou all.
2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto youwith many tears; not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might knowthe love which I have more abundantly unto you.
2:5 But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part:that I may not overcharge you all.
2:6 Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflictedof many.
2:7 So that contrariwise ye ought rather to forgive him, and comforthim, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuchsorrow.
2:8 Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love towardhim.
2:9 For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof ofyou, whether ye be obedient in all things.
2:10 To whom ye forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgaveany thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in theperson of Christ; 
2:11 Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: forwe are not ignorant of his devices.
2:12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel, anda door was opened unto me of the Lord, 
2:13 I had no rest in myspirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave ofthem, I went from thence into Macedonia.
2:14 Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph inChrist, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in everyplace.
2:15 For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that aresaved, and in them that perish: 
2:16 To the one we are the savour ofdeath unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. Andwho is sufficient for these things?  
2:17 For we are not as many,which corrupt the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, inthe sight of God speak we in Christ.
3:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as someothers, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendationfrom you?  
3:2 Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known andread of all men: 
3:3 Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be theepistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with theSpirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tablesof the heart.
3:4 And such trust have we through Christ to God-ward: 
3:5 Not that weare sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; butour sufficiency is of God; 
3:6 Who also hath made us able ministers ofthe new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for theletter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
3:7 But if the ministration of death, written and engraven in stones,was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not stedfastlybehold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which glorywas to be done away: 
3:8 How shall not the ministration of the spiritbe rather glorious?  
3:9 For if the ministration of condemnation beglory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed inglory.
3:10 For even that which was made glorious had no glory in thisrespect, by reason of the glory that excelleth.
3:11 For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that whichremaineth is glorious.
3:12 Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness ofspeech: 
3:13 And not as Moses, which put a vail over his face, thatthe children of Israel could not stedfastly look to the end of thatwhich is abolished: 
3:14 But their minds were blinded: for until thisday remaineth the same vail untaken away in the reading of the oldtestament; which vail is done away in Christ.
3:15 But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upontheir heart.
3:16 Nevertheless when it shall turn to the Lord, the vail shall betaken away.
3:17 Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is,there is liberty.
3:18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory ofthe Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even asby the Spirit of the LORD.
4:1 Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy,we faint not; 
4:2 But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty,not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully;but by manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man'sconscience in the sight of God.
4:3 But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost: 
4:4 Inwhom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them whichbelieve not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who isthe image of God, should shine unto them.
4:5 For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; andourselves your servants for Jesus' sake.
4:6 For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hathshined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the gloryof God in the face of Jesus Christ.
4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellencyof the power may be of God, and not of us.
4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we areperplexed, but not in despair; 
4:9 Persecuted, but not forsaken; castdown, but not destroyed; 
4:10 Always bearing about in the body thedying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be mademanifest in our body.
4:11 For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake,that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortalflesh.
4:12 So then death worketh in us, but life in you.
4:13 We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, Ibelieved, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and thereforespeak; 
4:14 Knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raiseup us also by Jesus, and shall present us with you.
4:15 For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace mightthrough the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God.
4:16 For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish,yet the inward man is renewed day by day.
4:17 For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh forus a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory; 
4:18 While welook not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are notseen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things whichare not seen are eternal.
5:1 For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle weredissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands,eternal in the heavens.
5:2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon withour house which is from heaven: 
5:3 If so be that being clothed weshall not be found naked.
5:4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: notfor that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality mightbe swallowed up of life.
5:5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, whoalso hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.
5:6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are athome in the body, we are absent from the Lord: 
5:7 (For we walk byfaith, not by sight:) 
5:8 We are confident, I say, and willing ratherto be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord.
5:9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may beaccepted of him.
5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; thatevery one may receive the things done in his body, according to thathe hath done, whether it be good or bad.
5:11 Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but weare made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in yourconsciences.
5:12 For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give youoccasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answerthem which glory in appearance, and not in heart.
5:13 For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God: or whether webe sober, it is for your cause.
5:14 For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge,that if one died for all, then were all dead: 
5:15 And that he diedfor all, that they which live should not henceforth live untothemselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again.
5:16 Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, thoughwe have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we himno more.
5:17 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: oldthings are passed away; behold, all things are become new.
5:18 And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself byJesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
5:19 To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world untohimself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committedunto us the word of reconciliation.
5:20 Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseechyou by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
5:21 For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that wemight be made the righteousness of God in him.
6:1 We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that yereceive not the grace of God in vain.
6:2 (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in theday of salvation have I succoured thee: behold, now is the acceptedtime; behold, now is the day of salvation.)  
6:3 Giving no offence inany thing, that the ministry be not blamed: 
6:4 But in all thingsapproving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, inafflictions, in necessities, in distresses, 
6:5 In stripes, inimprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; 
6:6 By pureness, by knowledge, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the HolyGhost, by love unfeigned, 
6:7 By the word of truth, by the power ofGod, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
6:8 By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: asdeceivers, and yet true; 
6:9 As unknown, and yet well known; as dying,and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; 
6:10 As sorrowful,yet alway rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing,and yet possessing all things.
6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart isenlarged.
6:12 Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your ownbowels.
6:13 Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,)be ye also enlarged.
6:14 Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for whatfellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communionhath light with darkness?  
6:15 And what concord hath Christ withBelial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel?  
6:16 Andwhat agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are thetemple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, andwalk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
6:17 Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith theLord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.
6:18 And will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons anddaughters, saith the Lord Almighty.
7:1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanseourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfectingholiness in the fear of God.
7:2 Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, wehave defrauded no man.
7:3 I speak not this to condemn you: for I have said before, that yeare in our hearts to die and live with you.
7:4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying ofyou: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all ourtribulation.
7:5 For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, butwe were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within werefears.
7:6 Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down,comforted us by the coming of Titus; 
7:7 And not by his coming only,but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when he toldus your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; sothat I rejoiced the more.
7:8 For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, thoughI did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made yousorry, though it were but for a season.
7:9 Now I rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowedto repentance: for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that yemight receive damage by us in nothing.
7:10 For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to berepented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.
7:11 For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godlysort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing ofyourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehementdesire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye haveapproved yourselves to be clear in this matter.
7:12 Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his causethat had done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, butthat our care for you in the sight of God might appear unto you.
7:13 Therefore we were comforted in your comfort: yea, and exceedinglythe more joyed we for the joy of Titus, because his spirit wasrefreshed by you all.
7:14 For if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I am not ashamed;but as we spake all things to you in truth, even so our boasting,which I made before Titus, is found a truth.
7:15 And his inward affection is more abundant toward you, whilst heremembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling yereceived him.
7:16 I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things.
8:1 Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowedon the churches of Macedonia; 
8:2 How that in a great trial ofaffliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty aboundedunto the riches of their liberality.
8:3 For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their powerthey were willing of themselves; 
8:4 Praying us with much intreatythat we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship of theministering to the saints.
8:5 And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their ownselves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God.
8:6 Insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he wouldalso finish in you the same grace also.
8:7 Therefore, as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and utterance,and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see thatye abound in this grace also.
8:8 I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness ofothers, and to prove the sincerity of your love.
8:9 For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though hewas rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through hispoverty might be rich.
8:10 And herein I give my advice: for this is expedient for you, whohave begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago.
8:11 Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was areadiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of thatwhich ye have.
8:12 For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according tothat a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.
8:13 For I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened: 
8:14 Butby an equality, that now at this time your abundance may be a supplyfor their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for yourwant: that there may be equality: 
8:15 As it is written, He that hadgathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had nolack.
8:16 But thanks be to God, which put the same earnest care into theheart of Titus for you.
8:17 For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward,of his own accord he went unto you.
8:18 And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in thegospel throughout all the churches; 
8:19 And not that only, but whowas also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace,which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord, anddeclaration of your ready mind: 
8:20 Avoiding this, that no man shouldblame us in this abundance which is administered by us: 
8:21 Providingfor honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in thesight of men.
8:22 And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oftentimesproved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent, upon thegreat confidence which I have in you.
8:23 Whether any do enquire of Titus, he is my partner andfellowhelper concerning you: or our brethren be enquired of, they arethe messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ.
8:24 Wherefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof ofyour love, and of our boasting on your behalf.
9:1 For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluousfor me to write to you: 
9:2 For I know the forwardness of your mind,for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready ayear ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.
9:3 Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should bein vain in this behalf; that, as I said, ye may be ready: 
9:4 Lesthaply if they of Macedonia come with me, and find you unprepared, we(that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confidentboasting.
9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that theywould go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereofye had notice before, that the same might be ready, as a matter ofbounty, and not as of covetousness.
9:6 But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap alsosparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap alsobountifully.
9:7 Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give;not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.
9:8 And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye,always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every goodwork: 
9:9 (As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hath givento the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever.
9:10 Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread foryour food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits ofyour righteousness;) 
9:11 Being enriched in every thing to allbountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to God.
9:12 For the administration of this service not only supplieth thewant of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings untoGod; 
9:13 Whiles by the experiment of this ministration they glorifyGod for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and foryour liberal distribution unto them, and unto all men; 
9:14 And bytheir prayer for you, which long after you for the exceeding grace ofGod in you.
9:15 Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.
10:1 Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness ofChrist, who in presence am base among you, but being absent am boldtoward you: 
10:2 But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I ampresent with that confidence, wherewith I think to be bold againstsome, which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh.
10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh:
10:4 (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mightythrough God to the pulling down of strong holds;) 
10:5 Casting downimaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against theknowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to theobedience of Christ; 
10:6 And having in a readiness to revenge alldisobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.
10:7 Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any mantrust to himself that he is Christ's, let him of himself think thisagain, that, as he is Christ's, even so are we Christ's.
10:8 For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, whichthe Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction,I should not be ashamed: 
10:9 That I may not seem as if I wouldterrify you by letters.
10:10 For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but hisbodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.
10:11 Let such an one think this, that, such as we are in word byletters when we are absent, such will we be also in deed when we arepresent.
10:12 For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compareourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuringthemselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves,are not wise.
10:13 But we will not boast of things without our measure, butaccording to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us,a measure to reach even unto you.
10:14 For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though wereached not unto you: for we are come as far as to you also inpreaching the gospel of Christ: 
10:15 Not boasting of things withoutour measure, that is, of other men's labours; but having hope, whenyour faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according toour rule abundantly, 
10:16 To preach the gospel in the regions beyondyou, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready toour hand.
10:17 But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
10:18 For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom theLord commendeth.
11:1 Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: andindeed bear with me.
11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I haveespoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virginto Christ.
11:3 But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Evethrough his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from thesimplicity that is in Christ.
11:4 For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have notpreached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received,or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear withhim.
11:5 For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.
11:6 But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge; but we havebeen throughly made manifest among you in all things.
11:7 Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might beexalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
11:8 I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service.
11:9 And when I was present with you, and wanted, I was chargeable tono man: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came fromMacedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from beingburdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.
11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of thisboasting in the regions of Achaia.
11:11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.
11:12 But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion fromthem which desire occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be foundeven as we.
11:13 For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transformingthemselves into the apostles of Christ.
11:14 And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel oflight.
11:15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also betransformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall beaccording to their works.
11:16 I say again, Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as afool receive me, that I may boast myself a little.
11:17 That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as itwere foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.
11:18 Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.
11:19 For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.
11:20 For ye suffer, if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devouryou, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite youon the face.
11:21 I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak.Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am boldalso.
11:22 Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Arethey the seed of Abraham? so am I.
11:23 Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; inlabours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons morefrequent, in deaths oft.
11:24 Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one.
11:25 Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice Isuffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; 
11:26 In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, inperils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils inthe city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perilsamong false brethren; 
11:27 In weariness and painfulness, in watchingsoften, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
11:28 Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon medaily, the care of all the churches.
11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is offended, and I burn not?
11:30 If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concernmine infirmities.
11:31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessedfor evermore, knoweth that I lie not.
11:32 In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city ofthe Damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me: 
11:33 Andthrough a window in a basket was I let down by the wall, and escapedhis hands.
12:1 It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come tovisions and revelations of the Lord.
12:2 I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in thebody, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: Godknoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven.
12:3 And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body,I cannot tell: God knoweth;) 
12:4 How that he was caught up intoparadise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for aman to utter.
12:5 Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, butin mine infirmities.
12:6 For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for Iwill say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of meabove that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
12:7 And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundanceof the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, themessenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted abovemeasure.
12:8 For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might departfrom me.
12:9 And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for mystrength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will Irather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest uponme.
12:10 Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, innecessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: forwhen I am weak, then am I strong.
12:11 I am become a fool in glorying; ye have compelled me: for Iought to have been commended of you: for in nothing am I behind thevery chiefest apostles, though I be nothing.
12:12 Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in allpatience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds.
12:13 For what is it wherein ye were inferior to other churches,except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? forgive me thiswrong.
12:14 Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will notbe burdensome to you: for I seek not your's but you: for the childrenought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
12:15 And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you; though themore abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.
12:16 But be it so, I did not burden you: nevertheless, being crafty,I caught you with guile.
12:17 Did I make a gain of you by any of them whom I sent unto you?
12:18 I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make again of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in thesame steps?  
12:19 Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you?we speak before God in Christ: but we do all things, dearly beloved,for your edifying.
12:20 For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as Iwould, and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lestthere be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings,swellings, tumults: 
12:21 And lest, when I come again, my God willhumble me among you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinnedalready, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication andlasciviousness which they have committed.
13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two orthree witnesses shall every word be established.
13:2 I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were present, thesecond time; and being absent now I write to them which heretoforehave sinned, and to all other, that, if I come again, I will notspare: 
13:3 Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which toyou-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you.
13:4 For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth bythe power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live withhim by the power of God toward you.
13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your ownselves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you,except ye be reprobates?  
13:6 But I trust that ye shall know that weare not reprobates.
13:7 Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we should appearapproved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be asreprobates.
13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.
13:9 For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and thisalso we wish, even your perfection.
13:10 Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being presentI should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hathgiven me to edification, and not to destruction.
13:11 Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, beof one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall bewith you.
13:12 Greet one another with an holy kiss.
13:13 All the saints salute you.
13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and thecommunion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen.