1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesusbegan both to do and teach, 
1:2 Until the day in which he was takenup, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments untothe apostles whom he had chosen: 
1:3 To whom also he shewed himselfalive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of themforty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom ofGod: 
1:4 And, being assembled together with them, commanded them thatthey should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of theFather, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.
1:5 For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized withthe Holy Ghost not many days hence.
1:6 When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying,Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?  
1:7 And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or theseasons, which the Father hath put in his own power.
1:8 But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come uponyou: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in allJudaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he wastaken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight.
1:10 And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up,behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; 
1:11 Which also said,Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this sameJesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in likemanner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
1:12 Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet,which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey.
1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room,where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, andThomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and SimonZelotes, and Judas the brother of James.
1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication,with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.
1:15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples,and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred andtwenty,) 
1:16 Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have beenfulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake beforeconcerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus.
1:17 For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of thisministry.
1:18 Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; andfalling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowelsgushed out.
1:19 And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch asthat field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say,The field of blood.
1:20 For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation bedesolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let anothertake.
1:21 Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the timethat the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 
1:22 Beginning from thebaptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, mustone be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.
1:23 And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamedJustus, and Matthias.
1:24 And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the heartsof all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, 
1:25 That hemay take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas bytransgression fell, that he might go to his own place.
1:26 And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias;and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
2:1 And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all withone accord in one place.
2:2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mightywind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
2:3 And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, andit sat upon each of them.
2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speakwith other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
2:5 And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out ofevery nation under heaven.
2:6 Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, andwere confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his ownlanguage.
2:7 And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another,Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans?  
2:8 And how hear weevery man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?  
2:9 Parthians, andMedes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea,and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, 
2:10 Phrygia, and Pamphylia, inEgypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome,Jews and proselytes, 
2:11 Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speakin our tongues the wonderful works of God.
2:12 And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one toanother, What meaneth this?  
2:13 Others mocking said, These men arefull of new wine.
2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, andsaid unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem,be this known unto you, and hearken to my words: 
2:15 For these arenot drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of theday.
2:16 But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel; 
2:17 Andit shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out ofmy Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shallprophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shalldream dreams: 
2:18 And on my servants and on my handmaidens I willpour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy: 
2:19 AndI will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath;blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke: 
2:20 The sun shall be turnedinto darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notableday of the Lord come: 
2:21 And it shall come to pass, that whosoevershall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
2:22 Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a manapproved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which Goddid by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know: 
2:23 Him,being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God,ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: 
2:24 WhomGod hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it wasnot possible that he should be holden of it.
2:25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord alwaysbefore my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not bemoved: 
2:26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad;moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope: 
2:27 Because thou wilt notleave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to seecorruption.
2:28 Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make mefull of joy with thy countenance.
2:29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarchDavid, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with usunto this day.
2:30 Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with anoath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh,he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne; 
2:31 He seeing thisbefore spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not leftin hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.
2:32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
2:33 Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and havingreceived of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shedforth this, which ye now see and hear.
2:34 For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself,The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 
2:35 Until Imake thy foes thy footstool.
2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that Godhath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord andChrist.
2:37 Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, andsaid unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren,what shall we do?  
2:38 Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and bebaptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for theremission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
2:39 For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to allthat are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.
2:40 And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Saveyourselves from this untoward generation.
2:41 Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and thesame day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.
2:42 And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine andfellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.
2:43 And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs weredone by the apostles.
2:44 And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
2:45 And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men,as every man had need.
2:46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, andbreaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladnessand singleness of heart, 
2:47 Praising God, and having favour with allthe people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should besaved.
3:1 Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour ofprayer, being the ninth hour.
3:2 And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whomthey laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful,to ask alms of them that entered into the temple; 
3:3 Who seeing Peterand John about to go into the temple asked an alms.
3:4 And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look onus.
3:5 And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something ofthem.
3:6 Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I havegive I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.
3:7 And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: andimmediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.
3:8 And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them intothe temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God: 
3:10 And theyknew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of thetemple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that whichhad happened unto him.
3:11 And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all thepeople ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's,greatly wondering.
3:12 And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men ofIsrael, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, asthough by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?
3:13 The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of ourfathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, anddenied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to lethim go.
3:14 But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murdererto be granted unto you; 
3:15 And killed the Prince of life, whom Godhath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.
3:16 And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong,whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given himthis perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
3:17 And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as didalso your rulers.
3:18 But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of allhis prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.
3:19 Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may beblotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presenceof the Lord.
3:20 And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached untoyou: 
3:21 Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitutionof all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holyprophets since the world began.
3:22 For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lordyour God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shallye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
3:23 And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hearthat prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.
3:24 Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that followafter, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.
3:25 Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant whichGod made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shallall the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
3:26 Unto you first God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him tobless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.
4:1 And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain ofthe temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them, 
4:2 Being grieved thatthey taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrectionfrom the dead.
4:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the nextday: for it was now eventide.
4:4 Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the numberof the men was about five thousand.
4:5 And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders,and scribes, 
4:6 And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John,and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest,were gathered together at Jerusalem.
4:7 And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By whatpower, or by what name, have ye done this?  
4:8 Then Peter, filledwith the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, andelders of Israel, 
4:9 If we this day be examined of the good deed doneto the impotent man, by what means he is made whole; 
4:10 Be it knownunto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name ofJesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from thedead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.
4:11 This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, whichis become the head of the corner.
4:12 Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none othername under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.
4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceivedthat they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and theytook knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.
4:14 And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, theycould say nothing against it.
4:15 But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council,they conferred among themselves, 
4:16 Saying, What shall we do tothese men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them ismanifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it.
4:17 But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitlythreaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.
4:18 And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all norteach in the name of Jesus.
4:19 But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it beright in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God,judge ye.
4:20 For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
4:21 So when they had further threatened them, they let them go,finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: forall men glorified God for that which was done.
4:22 For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle ofhealing was shewed.
4:23 And being let go, they went to their own company, and reportedall that the chief priests and elders had said unto them.
4:24 And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God withone accord, and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, andearth, and the sea, and all that in them is: 
4:25 Who by the mouth ofthy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the peopleimagine vain things?  
4:26 The kings of the earth stood up, and therulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against hisChrist.
4:27 For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hastanointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and thepeople of Israel, were gathered together, 
4:28 For to do whatsoeverthy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
4:29 And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thyservants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word, 
4:30 Bystretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may bedone by the name of thy holy child Jesus.
4:31 And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they wereassembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, andthey spake the word of God with boldness.
4:32 And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and ofone soul: neither said any of them that ought of the things which hepossessed was his own; but they had all things common.
4:33 And with great power gave the apostles witness of theresurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.
4:34 Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as werepossessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of thethings that were sold, 
4:35 And laid them down at the apostles' feet:and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.
4:36 And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is,being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, and of thecountry of Cyprus, 
4:37 Having land, sold it, and brought the money,and laid it at the apostles' feet.
5:1 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold apossession, 
5:2 And kept back part of the price, his wife also beingprivy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles'feet.
5:3 But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lieto the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
5:4 Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold,was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing inthine heart?  thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
5:5 And Ananias hearing these words fell down, and gave up the ghost:and great fear came on all them that heard these things.
5:6 And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, andburied him.
5:7 And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife,not knowing what was done, came in.
5:8 And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land forso much? And she said, Yea, for so much.
5:9 Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed togetherto tempt the Spirit of the Lord? behold, the feet of them which haveburied thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.
5:10 Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up theghost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carryingher forth, buried her by her husband.
5:11 And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many asheard these things.
5:12 And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonderswrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord inSolomon's porch.
5:13 And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the peoplemagnified them.
5:14 And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both ofmen and women.)  
5:15 Insomuch that they brought forth the sick intothe streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least theshadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
5:16 There came also a multitude out of the cities round about untoJerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with uncleanspirits: and they were healed every one.
5:17 Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him,(which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled withindignation, 
5:18 And laid their hands on the apostles, and put themin the common prison.
5:19 But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, andbrought them forth, and said, 
5:20 Go, stand and speak in the templeto the people all the words of this life.
5:21 And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early inthe morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that werewith him, and called the council together, and all the senate of thechildren of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
5:22 But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison,they returned and told, 
5:23 Saying, The prison truly found we shutwith all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors:but when we had opened, we found no man within.
5:24 Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and thechief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto thiswould grow.
5:25 Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye putin prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
5:26 Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them withoutviolence: for they feared the people, lest they should have beenstoned.
5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council:and the high priest asked them, 
5:28 Saying, Did not we straitlycommand you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, yehave filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring thisman's blood upon us.
5:29 Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought toobey God rather than men.
5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hangedon a tree.
5:31 Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and aSaviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
5:32 And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the HolyGhost, whom God hath given to them that obey him.
5:33 When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and tookcounsel to slay them.
5:34 Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, namedGamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people,and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 
5:35 And saidunto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend todo as touching these men.
5:36 For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to besomebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joinedthemselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, werescattered, and brought to nought.
5:37 After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of thetaxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; andall, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
5:38 And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let themalone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come tonought: 
5:39 But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haplyye be found even to fight against God.
5:40 And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles,and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the nameof Jesus, and let them go.
5:41 And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicingthat they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.
5:42 And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not toteach and preach Jesus Christ.
6:1 And in those days, when the number of the disciples wasmultiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against theHebrews, because their widows were neglected in the dailyministration.
6:2 Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them,and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, andserve tables.
6:3 Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honestreport, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint overthis business.
6:4 But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to theministry of the word.
6:5 And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they choseStephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, andProchorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas aproselyte of Antioch: 
6:6 Whom they set before the apostles: and whenthey had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
6:7 And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciplesmultiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priestswere obedient to the faith.
6:8 And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders andmiracles among the people.
6:9 Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called thesynagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and ofthem of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.
6:10 And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit bywhich he spake.
6:11 Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speakblasphemous words against Moses, and against God.
6:12 And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes,and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council,
6:13 And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not tospeak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law: 
6:14 Forwe have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy thisplace, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
6:15 And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, sawhis face as it had been the face of an angel.
7:1 Then said the high priest, Are these things so?  
7:2 And he said,Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared untoour father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt inCharran, 
7:3 And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and fromthy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee.
7:4 Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt inCharran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed himinto this land, wherein ye now dwell.
7:5 And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to sethis foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for apossession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.
7:6 And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in astrange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, andentreat them evil four hundred years.
7:7 And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, saidGod: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.
7:8 And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begatIsaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; andJacob begat the twelve patriarchs.
7:9 And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: butGod was with him, 
7:10 And delivered him out of all his afflictions,and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt;and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
7:11 Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan,and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.
7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent outour fathers first.
7:13 And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; andJoseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.
7:14 Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all hiskindred, threescore and fifteen souls.
7:15 So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
7:16 And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre thatAbraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father ofSychem.
7:17 But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had swornto Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt, 
7:18 Till anotherking arose, which knew not Joseph.
7:19 The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated ourfathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end theymight not live.
7:20 In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, andnourished up in his father's house three months: 
7:21 And when he wascast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for herown son.
7:22 And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and wasmighty in words and in deeds.
7:23 And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart tovisit his brethren the children of Israel.
7:24 And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avengedhim that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian: 
7:25 For he supposedhis brethren would have understood how that God by his hand woulddeliver them: but they understood not.
7:26 And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, andwould have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; whydo ye wrong one to another?  
7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrongthrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
7:28 Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?  
7:29 Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land ofMadian, where he begat two sons.
7:30 And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in thewilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in abush.
7:31 When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew nearto behold it, the voice of the LORD came unto him, 
7:32 Saying, I amthe God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, andthe God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.
7:33 Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: forthe place where thou standest is holy ground.
7:34 I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is inEgypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliverthem. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.
7:35 This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and ajudge? the same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the handof the angel which appeared to him in the bush.
7:36 He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signsin the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness fortyyears.
7:37 This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, Aprophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren,like unto me; him shall ye hear.
7:38 This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with theangel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: whoreceived the lively oracles to give unto us: 
7:39 To whom our fatherswould not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turnedback again into Egypt, 
7:40 Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to gobefore us: for as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land ofEgypt, we wot not what is become of him.
7:41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice untothe idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.
7:42 Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven;as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel,have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space offorty years in the wilderness?  
7:43 Yea, ye took up the tabernacle ofMoloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made toworship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.
7:44 Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, ashe had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make itaccording to the fashion that he had seen.
7:45 Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus intothe possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face ofour fathers, unto the days of David; 
7:46 Who found favour before God,and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
7:47 But Solomon built him an house.
7:48 Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; assaith the prophet, 
7:49 Heaven is my throne, and earth is myfootstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is theplace of my rest?  
7:50 Hath not my hand made all these things?  
7:51 Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do alwaysresist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.
7:52 Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and theyhave slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; ofwhom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers: 
7:53 Who havereceived the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.
7:54 When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, andthey gnashed on him with their teeth.
7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly intoheaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right handof God, 
7:56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Sonof man standing on the right hand of God.
7:57 Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears,and ran upon him with one accord, 
7:58 And cast him out of the city,and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a youngman's feet, whose name was Saul.
7:59 And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, LordJesus, receive my spirit.
7:60 And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay notthis sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
8:1 And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there wasa great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; andthey were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea andSamaria, except the apostles.
8:2 And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made greatlamentation over him.
8:3 As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into everyhouse, and haling men and women committed them to prison.
8:4 Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every wherepreaching the word.
8:5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christunto them.
8:6 And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things whichPhilip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.
8:7 For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many thatwere possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that werelame, were healed.
8:8 And there was great joy in that city.
8:9 But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in thesame city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, givingout that himself was some great one: 
8:10 To whom they all gave heed,from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power ofGod.
8:11 And to him they had regard, because that of long time he hadbewitched them with sorceries.
8:12 But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning thekingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, bothmen and women.
8:13 Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, hecontinued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signswhich were done.
8:14 Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samariahad received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: 
8:15 Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they mightreceive the Holy Ghost: 
8:16 (For as yet he was fallen upon none ofthem: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.)  
8:17 Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
8:18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' handsthe Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, 
8:19 Saying, Give mealso this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive theHoly Ghost.
8:20 But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thouhast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.
8:21 Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart isnot right in the sight of God.
8:22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhapsthe thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee.
8:23 For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and inthe bond of iniquity.
8:24 Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the LORD for me, thatnone of these things which ye have spoken come upon me.
8:25 And they, when they had testified and preached the word of theLord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villagesof the Samaritans.
8:26 And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, andgo toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem untoGaza, which is desert.
8:27 And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuchof great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had thecharge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,
8:28 Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias theprophet.
8:29 Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself tothis chariot.
8:30 And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophetEsaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?  
8:31 And hesaid, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desiredPhilip that he would come up and sit with him.
8:32 The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led asa sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, soopened he not his mouth: 
8:33 In his humiliation his judgment wastaken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life istaken from the earth.
8:34 And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whomspeaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?  
8:35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, andpreached unto him Jesus.
8:36 And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water:and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to bebaptized?  
8:37 And Philip said, If thou believest with all thineheart, thou mayest.And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son ofGod.
8:38 And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went downboth into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.
8:39 And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of theLord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he wenton his way rejoicing.
8:40 But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preachedin all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.
9:1 And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against thedisciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, 
9:2 And desired ofhim letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any ofthis way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them boundunto Jerusalem.
9:3 And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly thereshined round about him a light from heaven: 
9:4 And he fell to theearth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutestthou me?  
9:5 And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I amJesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against thepricks.
9:6 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have meto do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and itshall be told thee what thou must do.
9:7 And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing avoice, but seeing no man.
9:8 And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, hesaw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him intoDamascus.
9:9 And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nordrink.
9:10 And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; andto him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I amhere, Lord.
9:11 And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street whichis called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one calledSaul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth, 
9:12 And hath seen in avision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him,that he might receive his sight.
9:13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man,how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem: 
9:14 And herehe hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thyname.
9:15 But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vesselunto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and thechildren of Israel: 
9:16 For I will shew him how great things he mustsuffer for my name's sake.
9:17 And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and puttinghis hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, thatappeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thoumightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.
9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales:and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.
9:19 And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saulcertain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.
9:20 And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he isthe Son of God.
9:21 But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he thatdestroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hitherfor that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chiefpriests?  
9:22 But Saul increased the more in strength, and confoundedthe Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.
9:23 And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel tokill him: 
9:24 But their laying await was known of Saul. And theywatched the gates day and night to kill him.
9:25 Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by thewall in a basket.
9:26 And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himselfto the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed notthat he was a disciple.
9:27 But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, anddeclared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that hehad spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in thename of Jesus.
9:28 And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.
9:29 And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputedagainst the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.
9:30 Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea,and sent him forth to Tarsus.
9:31 Then had the churches rest throughout all Judaea and Galilee andSamaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and inthe comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.
9:32 And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, hecame down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
9:33 And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, which had kept hisbed eight years, and was sick of the palsy.
9:34 And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole:arise, and make thy bed. And he arose immediately.
9:35 And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to theLord.
9:36 Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which byinterpretation is called Dorcas: this woman was full of good works andalmsdeeds which she did.
9:37 And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died:whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.
9:38 And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples hadheard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring himthat he would not delay to come to them.
9:39 Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, theybrought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by himweeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, whileshe was with them.
9:40 But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; andturning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes:and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
9:41 And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he hadcalled the saints and widows, presented her alive.
9:42 And it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in theLord.
9:43 And it came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with oneSimon a tanner.
10:1 There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurionof the band called the Italian band, 
10:2 A devout man, and one thatfeared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, andprayed to God alway.
10:3 He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day anangel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.
10:4 And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is it,Lord?  And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come upfor a memorial before God.
10:5 And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surnameis Peter: 
10:6 He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is bythe sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do.
10:7 And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, hecalled two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of themthat waited on him continually; 
10:8 And when he had declared allthese things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.
10:9 On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh untothe city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixthhour: 
10:10 And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but whilethey made ready, he fell into a trance, 
10:11 And saw heaven opened,and a certain vessel descending upon him, as it had been a great sheetknit at the four corners, and let down to the earth: 
10:12 Whereinwere all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
10:13 And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.
10:14 But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thingthat is common or unclean.
10:15 And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What Godhath cleansed, that call not thou common.
10:16 This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up again intoheaven.
10:17 Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision which he hadseen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius hadmade enquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate, 
10:18 Andcalled, and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodgedthere.
10:19 While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him,Behold, three men seek thee.
10:20 Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubtingnothing: for I have sent them.
10:21 Then Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him fromCornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is the causewherefore ye are come?  
10:22 And they said, Cornelius the centurion,a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all thenation of the Jews, was warned from God by an holy angel to send forthee into his house, and to hear words of thee.
10:23 Then called he them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow Peterwent away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
10:24 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Corneliuswaited for them, and he had called together his kinsmen and nearfriends.
10:25 And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down athis feet, and worshipped him.
10:26 But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.
10:27 And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that werecome together.
10:28 And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thingfor a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of anothernation; but God hath shewed me that I should not call any man commonor unclean.
10:29 Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I wassent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me?  
10:30 And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; andat the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stoodbefore me in bright clothing, 
10:31 And said, Cornelius, thy prayer isheard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.
10:32 Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname isPeter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the seaside: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.
10:33 Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well donethat thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God,to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.
10:34 Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceivethat God is no respecter of persons: 
10:35 But in every nation he thatfeareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.
10:36 The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preachingpeace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:) 
10:37 That word, I say, yeknow, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began fromGalilee, after the baptism which John preached; 
10:38 How God anointedJesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went aboutdoing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for Godwas with him.
10:39 And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the landof the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:
10:40 Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly; 
10:41 Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God, even tous, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.
10:42 And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testifythat it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick anddead.
10:43 To him give all the prophets witness, that through his namewhosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.
10:44 While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on allthem which heard the word.
10:45 And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, asmany as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was pouredout the gift of the Holy Ghost.
10:46 For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Thenanswered Peter, 
10:47 Can any man forbid water, that these should notbe baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?  
10:48 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Thenprayed they him to tarry certain days.
11:1 And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that theGentiles had also received the word of God.
11:2 And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of thecircumcision contended with him, 
11:3 Saying, Thou wentest in to menuncircumcised, and didst eat with them.
11:4 But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning, and expoundedit by order unto them, saying, 
11:5 I was in the city of Joppapraying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain vessel descend, asit had been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; andit came even to me: 
11:6 Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes,I considered, and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
11:7 And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.
11:8 But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath atany time entered into my mouth.
11:9 But the voice answered me again from heaven, What God hathcleansed, that call not thou common.
11:10 And this was done three times: and all were drawn up again intoheaven.
11:11 And, behold, immediately there were three men already come untothe house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.
11:12 And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. Moreoverthese six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man'shouse: 
11:13 And he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house,which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon,whose surname is Peter; 
11:14 Who shall tell thee words, whereby thouand all thy house shall be saved.
11:15 And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on usat the beginning.
11:16 Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, Johnindeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the HolyGhost.
11:17 Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us,who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; what was I, that I couldwithstand God?  
11:18 When they heard these things, they held theirpeace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentilesgranted repentance unto life.
11:19 Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution thatarose about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, andAntioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.
11:20 And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when theywere come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORDJesus.
11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great numberbelieved, and turned unto the Lord.
11:22 Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the churchwhich was in Jerusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he shouldgo as far as Antioch.
11:23 Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, andexhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave untothe Lord.
11:24 For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith:and much people was added unto the Lord.
11:25 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul: 
11:26 Andwhen he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came topass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, andtaught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first inAntioch.
11:27 And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.
11:28 And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified bythe Spirit that there should be great dearth throughout all the world:which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar.
11:29 Then the disciples, every man according to his ability,determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:
11:30 Which also they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands ofBarnabas and Saul.
12:1 Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands tovex certain of the church.
12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
12:3 And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further totake Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)  
12:4 Andwhen he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered himto four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter tobring him forth to the people.
12:5 Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made withoutceasing of the church unto God for him.
12:6 And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peterwas sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and thekeepers before the door kept the prison.
12:7 And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a lightshined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised himup, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.
12:8 And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thysandals.And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, andfollow me.
12:9 And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was truewhich was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision.
12:10 When they were past the first and the second ward, they cameunto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them ofhis own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street;and forthwith the angel departed from him.
12:11 And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of asurety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me outof the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people ofthe Jews.
12:12 And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house ofMary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many weregathered together praying.
12:13 And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came tohearken, named Rhoda.
12:14 And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate forgladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.
12:15 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantlyaffirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.
12:16 But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door,and saw him, they were astonished.
12:17 But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace,declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. Andhe said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren. And hedeparted, and went into another place.
12:18 Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among thesoldiers, what was become of Peter.
12:19 And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, heexamined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to death.And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.
12:20 And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: butthey came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king'schamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their country wasnourished by the king's country.
12:21 And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon histhrone, and made an oration unto them.
12:22 And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a god,and not of a man.
12:23 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gavenot God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost.
12:24 But the word of God grew and multiplied.
12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they hadfulfilled their ministry, and took with them John, whose surname wasMark.
13:1 Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophetsand teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, andLucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod thetetrarch, and Saul.
13:2 As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said,Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have calledthem.
13:3 And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands onthem, they sent them away.
13:4 So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed untoSeleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.
13:5 And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God inthe synagogues of the Jews: and they had also John to their minister.
13:6 And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found acertain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Barjesus:
13:7 Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, aprudent man; who called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear theword of God.
13:8 But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation)withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith.
13:9 Then Saul, (who also is called Paul,) filled with the Holy Ghost,set his eyes on him.
13:10 And said, O full of all subtilty and all mischief, thou child ofthe devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease topervert the right ways of the Lord?  
13:11 And now, behold, the handof the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sunfor a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness;and he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.
13:12 Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, beingastonished at the doctrine of the Lord.
13:13 Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came toPerga in Pamphylia: and John departing from them returned toJerusalem.
13:14 But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch inPisidia, and went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.
13:15 And after the reading of the law and the prophets the rulers ofthe synagogue sent unto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye haveany word of exhortation for the people, say on.
13:16 Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men ofIsrael, and ye that fear God, give audience.
13:17 The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exaltedthe people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and withan high arm brought he them out of it.
13:18 And about the time of forty years suffered he their manners inthe wilderness.
13:19 And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Chanaan,he divided their land to them by lot.
13:20 And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of fourhundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.
13:21 And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saulthe son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of fortyyears.
13:22 And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to betheir king; to whom also he gave their testimony, and said, I havefound David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shallfulfil all my will.
13:23 Of this man's seed hath God according to his promise raised untoIsrael a Saviour, Jesus: 
13:24 When John had first preached before hiscoming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
13:25 And as John fulfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that Iam?  I am not he. But, behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoesof his feet I am not worthy to loose.
13:26 Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, andwhosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvationsent.
13:27 For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because theyknew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read everysabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.
13:28 And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired theyPilate that he should be slain.
13:29 And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, theytook him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.
13:30 But God raised him from the dead: 
13:31 And he was seen manydays of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who arehis witnesses unto the people.
13:32 And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise whichwas made unto the fathers, 
13:33 God hath fulfilled the same unto ustheir children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is alsowritten in the second psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begottenthee.
13:34 And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now nomore to return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give youthe sure mercies of David.
13:35 Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not sufferthine Holy One to see corruption.
13:36 For David, after he had served his own generation by the will ofGod, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption:
13:37 But he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.
13:38 Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that throughthis man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins: 
13:39 And byhim all that believe are justified from all things, from which yecould not be justified by the law of Moses.
13:40 Beware therefore, lest that come upon you, which is spoken of inthe prophets; 
13:41 Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: forI work a work in your days, a work which ye shall in no wise believe,though a man declare it unto you.
13:42 And when the Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentilesbesought that these words might be preached to them the next sabbath.
13:43 Now when the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews andreligious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas: who, speaking tothem, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
13:44 And the next sabbath day came almost the whole city together tohear the word of God.
13:45 But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled withenvy, and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,contradicting and blaspheming.
13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessarythat the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeingye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life,lo, we turn to the Gentiles.
13:47 For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to bea light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto theends of the earth.
13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorifiedthe word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal lifebelieved.
13:49 And the word of the Lord was published throughout all theregion.
13:50 But the Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and thechief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul andBarnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts.
13:51 But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and cameunto Iconium.
13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Ghost.
14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together intothe synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude bothof the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.
14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made theirminds evil affected against the brethren.
14:3 Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, whichgave testimony unto the word of his grace, and granted signs andwonders to be done by their hands.
14:4 But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with theJews, and part with the apostles.
14:5 And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and alsoof the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stonethem, 
14:6 They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe,cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about: 
14:7 And there they preached the gospel.
14:8 And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet,being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked: 
14:9 Thesame heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceivingthat he had faith to be healed, 
14:10 Said with a loud voice, Standupright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.
14:11 And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up theirvoices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to usin the likeness of men.
14:12 And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, becausehe was the chief speaker.
14:13 Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, broughtoxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice withthe people.
14:14 Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they renttheir clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out, 
14:15 Andsaying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passionswith you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanitiesunto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, andall things that are therein: 
14:16 Who in times past suffered allnations to walk in their own ways.
14:17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he didgood, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling ourhearts with food and gladness.
14:18 And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, thatthey had not done sacrifice unto them.
14:19 And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium,who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of thecity, supposing he had been dead.
14:20 Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, andcame into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas toDerbe.
14:21 And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and hadtaught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, andAntioch, 
14:22 Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhortingthem to continue in the faith, and that we must through muchtribulation enter into the kingdom of God.
14:23 And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and hadprayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom theybelieved.
14:24 And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came toPamphylia.
14:25 And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went downinto Attalia: 
14:26 And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they hadbeen recommended to the grace of God for the work which theyfulfilled.
14:27 And when they were come, and had gathered the church together,they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had openedthe door of faith unto the Gentiles.
14:28 And there they abode long time with the disciples.
15:1 And certain men which came down from Judaea taught the brethren,and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, yecannot be saved.
15:2 When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension anddisputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, andcertain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles andelders about this question.
15:3 And being brought on their way by the church, they passed throughPhenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: andthey caused great joy unto all the brethren.
15:4 And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of thechurch, and of the apostles and elders, and they declared all thingsthat God had done with them.
15:5 But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees whichbelieved, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and tocommand them to keep the law of Moses.
15:6 And the apostles and elders came together for to consider of thismatter.
15:7 And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up, and saidunto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago Godmade choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear theword of the gospel, and believe.
15:8 And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witness, giving themthe Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us; 
15:9 And put no differencebetween us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
15:10 Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck ofthe disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
15:11 But we believe that through the grace of the LORD Jesus Christwe shall be saved, even as they.
15:12 Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience toBarnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wroughtamong the Gentiles by them.
15:13 And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Menand brethren, hearken unto me: 
15:14 Simeon hath declared how God atthe first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for hisname.
15:15 And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
15:16 After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle ofDavid, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof,and I will set it up: 
15:17 That the residue of men might seek afterthe Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith theLord, who doeth all these things.
15:18 Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of theworld.
15:19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which fromamong the Gentiles are turned to God: 
15:20 But that we write untothem, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and fromfornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.
15:21 For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him,being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.
15:22 Then pleased it the apostles and elders with the whole church,to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul andBarnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas and Silas, chief men amongthe brethren: 
15:23 And they wrote letters by them after this manner;The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethrenwhich are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.
15:24 Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from ushave troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye mustbe circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:
15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to sendchosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 
15:26 Men thathave hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
15:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell youthe same things by mouth.
15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon youno greater burden than these necessary things; 
15:29 That ye abstainfrom meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from thingsstrangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, yeshall do well. Fare ye well.
15:30 So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when theyhad gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle: 
15:31 Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.
15:32 And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhortedthe brethren with many words, and confirmed them.
15:33 And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go inpeace from the brethren unto the apostles.
15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.
15:35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching andpreaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
15:36 And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again andvisit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word ofthe LORD, and see how they do.
15:37 And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surnamewas Mark.
15:38 But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departedfrom them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.
15:39 And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departedasunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed untoCyprus; 
15:40 And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended bythe brethren unto the grace of God.
15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.
16:1 Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciplewas there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was aJewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek: 
16:2 Which was wellreported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.
16:3 Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took andcircumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: forthey knew all that his father was a Greek.
16:4 And as they went through the cities, they delivered them thedecrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elderswhich were at Jerusalem.
16:5 And so were the churches established in the faith, and increasedin number daily.
16:6 Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region ofGalatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word inAsia, 
16:7 After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go intoBithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.
16:8 And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.
16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man ofMacedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and helpus.
16:10 And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured togo into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us forto preach the gospel unto them.
16:11 Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course toSamothracia, and the next day to Neapolis; 
16:12 And from thence toPhilippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and acolony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.
16:13 And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side,where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto thewomen which resorted thither.
16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the cityof Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lordopened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.
16:15 And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us,saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into myhouse, and abide there. And she constrained us.
16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damselpossessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought hermasters much gain by soothsaying: 
16:17 The same followed Paul and us,and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God,which shew unto us the way of salvation.
16:18 And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned andsaid to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to comeout of her.And he came out the same hour.
16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone,they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace untothe rulers, 
16:20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, Thesemen, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, 
16:21 And teachcustoms, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe,being Romans.
16:22 And the multitude rose up together against them: and themagistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.
16:23 And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast theminto prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely: 
16:24 Who,having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, andmade their feet fast in the stocks.
16:25 And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises untoGod: and the prisoners heard them.
16:26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that thefoundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doorswere opened, and every one's bands were loosed.
16:27 And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, andseeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would havekilled himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.
16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm:for we are all here.
16:29 Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling,and fell down before Paul and Silas, 
16:30 And brought them out, andsaid, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?  
16:31 And they said, Believeon the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.
16:32 And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all thatwere in his house.
16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed theirstripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.
16:34 And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat beforethem, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.
16:35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying,Let those men go.
16:36 And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, Themagistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go inpeace.
16:37 But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned,being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust usout privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch usout.
16:38 And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: andthey feared, when they heard that they were Romans.
16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, anddesired them to depart out of the city.
16:40 And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house ofLydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, anddeparted.
17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, theycame to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews: 
17:2 AndPaul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath daysreasoned with them out of the scriptures, 
17:3 Opening and alleging,that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead;and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.
17:4 And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; andof the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not afew.
17:5 But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto themcertain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, andset all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, andsought to bring them out to the people.
17:6 And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certainbrethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turnedthe world upside down are come hither also; 
17:7 Whom Jason hathreceived: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, sayingthat there is another king, one Jesus.
17:8 And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, whenthey heard these things.
17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, theylet them go.
17:10 And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by nightunto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.
17:11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that theyreceived the word with all readiness of mind, and searched thescriptures daily, whether those things were so.
17:12 Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women whichwere Greeks, and of men, not a few.
17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word ofGod was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirredup the people.
17:14 And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as itwere to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.
17:15 And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: andreceiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to himwith all speed, they departed.
17:16 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirredin him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.
17:17 Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and withthe devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met withhim.
17:18 Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks,encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? othersome, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because hepreached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.
17:19 And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, Maywe know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?  
17:20 Forthou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would knowtherefore what these things mean.
17:21 (For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spenttheir time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some newthing.)  
17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said,Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are toosuperstitious.
17:23 For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altarwith this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore yeignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.
17:24 God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that heis Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
17:25 Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; 
17:26 And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all theface of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, andthe bounds of their habitation; 
17:27 That they should seek the Lord,if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not farfrom every one of us: 
17:28 For in him we live, and move, and have ourbeing; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are alsohis offspring.
17:29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not tothink that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, gravenby art and man's device.
17:30 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but nowcommandeth all men every where to repent: 
17:31 Because he hathappointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousnessby that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assuranceunto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.
17:32 And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, somemocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.
17:33 So Paul departed from among them.
17:34 Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among thewhich was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, andothers with them.
18:1 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came toCorinth; 
18:2 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus,lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because thatClaudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came untothem.
18:3 And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, andwrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.
18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded theJews and the Greeks.
18:5 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul waspressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus wasChrist.
18:6 And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook hisraiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I amclean; from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.
18:7 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house,named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to thesynagogue.
18:8 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on theLord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed,and were baptized.
18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be notafraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace: 
18:10 For I am with thee,and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people inthis city.
18:11 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the wordof God among them.
18:12 And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews madeinsurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to thejudgment seat, 
18:13 Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship Godcontrary to the law.
18:14 And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said untothe Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews,reason would that I should bear with you: 
18:15 But if it be aquestion of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for Iwill be no judge of such matters.
18:16 And he drave them from the judgment seat.
18:17 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of thesynagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared fornone of those things.
18:18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and thentook his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and withhim Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for hehad a vow.
18:19 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himselfentered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, heconsented not; 
18:21 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by allmeans keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will returnagain unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.
18:22 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted thechurch, he went down to Antioch.
18:23 And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and wentover all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengtheningall the disciples.
18:24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquentman, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.
18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and beingfervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things ofthe Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.
18:26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquilaand Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded untohim the way of God more perfectly.
18:27 And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethrenwrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come,helped them much which had believed through grace: 
18:28 For hemightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by thescriptures that Jesus was Christ.
19:1 And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paulhaving passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and findingcertain disciples, 
19:2 He said unto them, Have ye received the HolyGhost since ye believed?  And they said unto him, We have not so muchas heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.
19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And theysaid, Unto John's baptism.
19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism ofrepentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on himwhich should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.
19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the LordJesus.
19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost cameon them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.
19:7 And all the men were about twelve.
19:8 And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space ofthree months, disputing and persuading the things concerning thekingdom of God.
19:9 But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evilof that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separatedthe disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.
19:10 And this continued by the space of two years; so that all theywhich dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews andGreeks.
19:11 And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul: 
19:12 Sothat from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons,and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out ofthem.
19:13 Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them tocall over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus,saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.
19:14 And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of thepriests, which did so.
19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul Iknow; but who are ye?  
19:16 And the man in whom the evil spirit wasleaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so thatthey fled out of that house naked and wounded.
19:17 And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling atEphesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus wasmagnified.
19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed theirdeeds.
19:19 Many of them also which used curious arts brought their bookstogether, and burned them before all men: and they counted the priceof them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.
19:20 So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
19:21 After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, whenhe had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem,saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.
19:22 So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him,Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.
19:23 And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.
19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which madesilver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
19:25 Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, andsaid, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.
19:26 Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almostthroughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away muchpeople, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands: 
19:27 So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; butalso that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised,and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the worldworshippeth.
19:28 And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, andcried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
19:29 And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caughtGaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel,they rushed with one accord into the theatre.
19:30 And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, thedisciples suffered him not.
19:31 And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sentunto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into thetheatre.
19:32 Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for theassembly was confused: and the more part knew not wherefore they werecome together.
19:33 And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews puttinghim forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have madehis defence unto the people.
19:34 But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice aboutthe space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
19:35 And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye menof Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city ofthe Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of theimage which fell down from Jupiter?  
19:36 Seeing then that thesethings cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to donothing rashly.
19:37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbersof churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.
19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him,have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there aredeputies: let them implead one another.
19:39 But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shallbe determined in a lawful assembly.
19:40 For we are in danger to be called in question for this day'suproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of thisconcourse.
19:41 And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.
20:1 And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him thedisciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.
20:2 And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them muchexhortation, he came into Greece, 
20:3 And there abode three months.And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail intoSyria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.
20:4 And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of theThessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, andTimotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
20:5 These going before tarried for us at Troas.
20:6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavenedbread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode sevendays.
20:7 And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples cametogether to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart onthe morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.
20:8 And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they weregathered together.
20:9 And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus,being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, hesunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was takenup dead.
20:10 And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said,Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.
20:11 When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, andeaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so hedeparted.
20:12 And they brought the young man alive, and were not a littlecomforted.
20:13 And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, thereintending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself togo afoot.
20:14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came toMitylene.
20:15 And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios;and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; andthe next day we came to Miletus.
20:16 For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would notspend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, tobe at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.
20:17 And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders ofthe church.
20:18 And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, fromthe first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have beenwith you at all seasons, 
20:19 Serving the LORD with all humility ofmind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by thelying in wait of the Jews: 
20:20 And how I kept back nothing that wasprofitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught youpublickly, and from house to house, 
20:21 Testifying both to the Jews,and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward ourLord Jesus Christ.
20:22 And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, notknowing the things that shall befall me there: 
20:23 Save that theHoly Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictionsabide me.
20:24 But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dearunto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and theministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify thegospel of the grace of God.
20:25 And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gonepreaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
20:26 Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from theblood of all men.
20:27 For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel ofGod.
20:28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, overthe which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the churchof God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
20:29 For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolvesenter in among you, not sparing the flock.
20:30 Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perversethings, to draw away disciples after them.
20:31 Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three yearsI ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.
20:32 And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of hisgrace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritanceamong all them which are sanctified.
20:33 I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.
20:34 Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered untomy necessities, and to them that were with me.
20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought tosupport the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how hesaid, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
20:36 And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed withthem all.
20:37 And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,
20:38 Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that theyshould see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.
21:1 And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and hadlaunched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the dayfollowing unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara: 
21:2 And finding aship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.
21:3 Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand,and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was tounlade her burden.
21:4 And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said toPaul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.
21:5 And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went ourway; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, tillwe were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.
21:6 And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; andthey returned home again.
21:7 And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came toPtolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.
21:8 And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, andcame unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip theevangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.
21:9 And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.
21:10 And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea acertain prophet, named Agabus.
21:11 And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and boundhis own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shallthe Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shalldeliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
21:12 And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place,besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
21:13 Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mineheart?  for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die atJerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
21:14 And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The willof the Lord be done.
21:15 And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up toJerusalem.
21:16 There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea,and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whomwe should lodge.
21:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received usgladly.
21:18 And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and allthe elders were present.
21:19 And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly whatthings God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.
21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said untohim, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are whichbelieve; and they are all zealous of the law: 
21:21 And they areinformed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among theGentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcisetheir children, neither to walk after the customs.
21:22 What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together:for they will hear that thou art come.
21:23 Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men whichhave a vow on them; 
21:24 Them take, and purify thyself with them, andbe at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all mayknow that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee,are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepestthe law.
21:25 As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written andconcluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keepthemselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and fromstrangled, and from fornication.
21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself withthem entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of thedays of purification, until that an offering should be offered forevery one of them.
21:27 And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which wereof Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people,and laid hands on him, 
21:28 Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This isthe man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and thelaw, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple,and hath polluted this holy place.
21:29 (For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus anEphesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
21:30 And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: andthey took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith thedoors were shut.
21:31 And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chiefcaptain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
21:32 Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down untothem: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they leftbeating of Paul.
21:33 Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commandedhim to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what hehad done.
21:34 And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: andwhen he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded himto be carried into the castle.
21:35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borneof the soldiers for the violence of the people.
21:36 For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Awaywith him.
21:37 And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto thechief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speakGreek?  
21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these daysmadest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousandmen that were murderers?  
21:39 But Paul said, I am a man which am aJew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, Ibeseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.
21:40 And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, andbeckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made agreat silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying, 
22:1 Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now untoyou.
22:2 (And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them,they kept the more silence: and he saith,) 
22:3 I am verily a manwhich am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up inthis city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfectmanner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as yeall are this day.
22:4 And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and deliveringinto prisons both men and women.
22:5 As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estateof the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren,and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound untoJerusalem, for to be punished.
22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was comenigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven agreat light round about me.
22:7 And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me,Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?  
22:8 And I answered, Who artthou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thoupersecutest.
22:9 And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid;but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
22:10 And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me,Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of allthings which are appointed for thee to do.
22:11 And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being ledby the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.
22:12 And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having agood report of all the Jews which dwelt there, 
22:13 Came unto me, andstood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the samehour I looked up upon him.
22:14 And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thoushouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear thevoice of his mouth.
22:15 For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hastseen and heard.
22:16 And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash awaythy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.
22:17 And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem,even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; 
22:18 And sawhim saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem:for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.
22:19 And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in everysynagogue them that believed on thee: 
22:20 And when the blood of thymartyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting untohis death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him.
22:21 And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence untothe Gentiles.
22:22 And they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted uptheir voices, and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for itis not fit that he should live.
22:23 And as they cried out, and cast off their clothes, and threwdust into the air, 
22:24 The chief captain commanded him to be broughtinto the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging;that he might know wherefore they cried so against him.
22:25 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurionthat stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman,and uncondemned?  
22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went andtold the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for thisman is a Roman.
22:27 Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, artthou a Roman? He said, Yea.
22:28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I thisfreedom. And Paul said, But I was free born.
22:29 Then straightway they departed from him which should haveexamined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knewthat he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.
22:30 On the morrow, because he would have known the certaintywherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from his bands,and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, andbrought Paul down, and set him before them.
23:1 And Paul, earnestly beholding the council, said, Men andbrethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until thisday.
23:2 And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him tosmite him on the mouth.
23:3 Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall:for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to besmitten contrary to the law?  
23:4 And they that stood by said,Revilest thou God's high priest?  
23:5 Then said Paul, I wist not,brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shaltnot speak evil of the ruler of thy people.
23:6 But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and theother Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am aPharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of thedead I am called in question.
23:7 And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between thePharisees and the Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.
23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neitherangel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.
23:9 And there arose a great cry: and the scribes that were of thePharisees' part arose, and strove, saying, We find no evil in thisman: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not fightagainst God.
23:10 And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain,fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commandedthe soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, andto bring him into the castle.
23:11 And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be ofgood cheer, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, somust thou bear witness also at Rome.
23:12 And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, andbound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nordrink till they had killed Paul.
23:13 And they were more than forty which had made this conspiracy.
23:14 And they came to the chief priests and elders, and said, We havebound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing until wehave slain Paul.
23:15 Now therefore ye with the council signify to the chief captainthat he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquiresomething more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near,are ready to kill him.
23:16 And when Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, hewent and entered into the castle, and told Paul.
23:17 Then Paul called one of the centurions unto him, and said, Bringthis young man unto the chief captain: for he hath a certain thing totell him.
23:18 So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and said,Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and prayed me to bring thisyoung man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thee.
23:19 Then the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with himaside privately, and asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?
23:20 And he said, The Jews have agreed to desire thee that thouwouldest bring down Paul to morrow into the council, as though theywould enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.
23:21 But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for himof them more than forty men, which have bound themselves with an oath,that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him: andnow are they ready, looking for a promise from thee.
23:22 So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and chargedhim, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.
23:23 And he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready twohundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten,and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night; 
23:24 Andprovide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safeunto Felix the governor.
23:25 And he wrote a letter after this manner: 
23:26 Claudius Lysiasunto the most excellent governor Felix sendeth greeting.
23:27 This man was taken of the Jews, and should have been killed ofthem: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understoodthat he was a Roman.
23:28 And when I would have known the cause wherefore they accusedhim, I brought him forth into their council: 
23:29 Whom I perceived tobe accused of questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to hischarge worthy of death or of bonds.
23:30 And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wait for the man,I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers alsoto say before thee what they had against him. Farewell.
23:31 Then the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul, andbrought him by night to Antipatris.
23:32 On the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, andreturned to the castle: 
23:33 Who, when they came to Caesarea anddelivered the epistle to the governor, presented Paul also before him.
23:34 And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of whatprovince he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia; 
23:35 I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come. And hecommanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.
24:1 And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with theelders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed thegovernor against Paul.
24:2 And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him,saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that veryworthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence, 
24:3 Weaccept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with allthankfulness.
24:4 Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I praythee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.
24:5 For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover ofsedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader ofthe sect of the Nazarenes: 
24:6 Who also hath gone about to profanethe temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.
24:7 But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with greatviolence took him away out of our hands, 
24:8 Commanding his accusersto come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledgeof all these things, whereof we accuse him.
24:9 And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so.
24:10 Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him tospeak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many yearsa judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:
24:11 Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet buttwelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship.
24:12 And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man,neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in thecity: 
24:13 Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuseme.
24:14 But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they callheresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things whichare written in the law and in the prophets: 
24:15 And have hope towardGod, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be aresurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
24:16 And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a consciencevoid to offence toward God, and toward men.
24:17 Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, andofferings.
24:18 Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in thetemple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.
24:19 Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they hadought against me.
24:20 Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evildoing in me, while I stood before the council, 
24:21 Except it be forthis one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching theresurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day.
24:22 And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledgeof that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captainshall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter.
24:23 And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him haveliberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance tominister or come unto him.
24:24 And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla,which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning thefaith in Christ.
24:25 And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment tocome, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when Ihave a convenient season, I will call for thee.
24:26 He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul,that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, andcommuned with him.
24:27 But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: andFelix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.
25:1 Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days heascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
25:2 Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed himagainst Paul, and besought him, 
25:3 And desired favour against him,that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way tokill him.
25:4 But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, andthat he himself would depart shortly thither.
25:5 Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go downwith me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him.
25:6 And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he wentdown unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seatcommanded Paul to be brought.
25:7 And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalemstood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul,which they could not prove.
25:8 While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of theJews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have Ioffended any thing at all.
25:9 But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, andsaid, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of thesethings before me?  
25:10 Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgmentseat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, asthou very well knowest.
25:11 For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy ofdeath, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these thingswhereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appealunto Caesar.
25:12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered,Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.
25:13 And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came untoCaesarea to salute Festus.
25:14 And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul'scause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds byFelix: 
25:15 About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priestsand the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgmentagainst him.
25:16 To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans todeliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have theaccusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himselfconcerning the crime laid against him.
25:17 Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on themorrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be broughtforth.
25:18 Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought noneaccusation of such things as I supposed: 
25:19 But had certainquestions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus,which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
25:20 And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked himwhether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of thesematters.
25:21 But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing ofAugustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar.
25:22 Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself.To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.
25:23 And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, withgreat pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chiefcaptains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paulwas brought forth.
25:24 And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men which are herepresent with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of theJews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also here, crying thathe ought not to live any longer.
25:25 But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death,and that he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined tosend him.
25:26 Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. WhereforeI have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O kingAgrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhat to write.
25:27 For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and notwithal to signify the crimes laid against him.
26:1 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak forthyself.Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself: 
26:2 Ithink myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myselfthis day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused ofthe Jews: 
26:3 Especially because I know thee to be expert in allcustoms and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseechthee to hear me patiently.
26:4 My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first amongmine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews; 
26:5 Which knew mefrom the beginning, if they would testify, that after the moststraitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
26:6 And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made ofGod, unto our fathers: 
26:7 Unto which promise our twelve tribes,instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope'ssake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews.
26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that Godshould raise the dead?  
26:9 I verily thought with myself, that Iought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
26:10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints didI shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests;and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.
26:11 And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled themto blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecutedthem even unto strange cities.
26:12 Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commissionfrom the chief priests, 
26:13 At midday, O king, I saw in the way alight from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining roundabout me and them which journeyed with me.
26:14 And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voicespeaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, whypersecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
26:15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whomthou persecutest.
26:16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto theefor this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of thesethings which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I willappear unto thee; 
26:17 Delivering thee from the people, and from theGentiles, unto whom now I send thee, 
26:18 To open their eyes, and toturn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan untoGod, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance amongthem which are sanctified by faith that is in me.
26:19 Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto theheavenly vision: 
26:20 But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and atJerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and then to theGentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meetfor repentance.
26:21 For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and wentabout to kill me.
26:22 Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day,witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things thanthose which the prophets and Moses did say should come: 
26:23 ThatChrist should suffer, and that he should be the first that should risefrom the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to theGentiles.
26:24 And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice,Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.
26:25 But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forththe words of truth and soberness.
26:26 For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speakfreely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden fromhim; for this thing was not done in a corner.
26:27 King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thoubelievest.
26:28 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be aChristian.
26:29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also allthat hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am,except these bonds.
26:30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor,and Bernice, and they that sat with them: 
26:31 And when they weregone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doethnothing worthy of death or of bonds.
26:32 Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set atliberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.
27:1 And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, theydelivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, acenturion of Augustus' band.
27:2 And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we launched, meaning tosail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian ofThessalonica, being with us.
27:3 And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteouslyentreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refreshhimself.
27:4 And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus,because the winds were contrary.
27:5 And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, wecame to Myra, a city of Lycia.
27:6 And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing intoItaly; and he put us therein.
27:7 And when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were comeover against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete,over against Salmone; 
27:8 And, hardly passing it, came unto a placewhich is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto was the city of Lasea.
27:9 Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous,because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them, 
27:10 Andsaid unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurtand much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of ourlives.
27:11 Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner ofthe ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.
27:12 And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the morepart advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attainto Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and liethtoward the south west and north west.
27:13 And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they hadobtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed close by Crete.
27:14 But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind,called Euroclydon.
27:15 And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into thewind, we let her drive.
27:16 And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, wehad much work to come by the boat: 
27:17 Which when they had taken up,they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they shouldfall into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.
27:18 And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next daythey lightened the ship; 
27:19 And the third day we cast out with ourown hands the tackling of the ship.
27:20 And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and nosmall tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was thentaken away.
27:21 But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them,and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosedfrom Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.
27:22 And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be noloss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.
27:23 For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am,and whom I serve, 
27:24 Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be broughtbefore Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail withthee.
27:25 Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that itshall be even as it was told me.
27:26 Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.
27:27 But when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up anddown in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew nearto some country; 
27:28 And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: andwhen they had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found itfifteen fathoms.
27:29 Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they castfour anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day.
27:30 And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when theyhad let down the boat into the sea, under colour as though they wouldhave cast anchors out of the foreship, 
27:31 Paul said to thecenturion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, yecannot be saved.
27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let herfall off.
27:33 And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to takemeat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried andcontinued fasting, having taken nothing.
27:34 Wherefore I pray you to take some meat: for this is for yourhealth: for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you.
27:35 And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks toGod in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began toeat.
27:36 Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.
27:37 And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore andsixteen souls.
27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, andcast out the wheat into the sea.
27:39 And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovereda certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if itwere possible, to thrust in the ship.
27:40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they committedthemselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised upthe mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.
27:41 And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the shipaground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but thehinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.
27:42 And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any ofthem should swim out, and escape.
27:43 But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from theirpurpose; and commanded that they which could swim should castthemselves first into the sea, and get to land: 
27:44 And the rest,some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship.And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.
28:1 And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island wascalled Melita.
28:2 And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for theykindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the presentrain, and because of the cold.
28:3 And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them onthe fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on hishand.
28:4 And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand,they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom,though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.
28:5 And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.
28:6 Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen downdead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw noharm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was agod.
28:7 In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of theisland, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us threedays courteously.
28:8 And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of afever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, andlaid his hands on him, and healed him.
28:9 So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in theisland, came, and were healed: 
28:10 Who also honoured us with manyhonours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as werenecessary.
28:11 And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria,which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.
28:12 And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
28:13 And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: andafter one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day toPuteoli: 
28:14 Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry withthem seven days: and so we went toward Rome.
28:15 And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came tomeet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paulsaw, he thanked God, and took courage.
28:16 And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisonersto the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himselfwith a soldier that kept him.
28:17 And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chiefof the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said untothem, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against thepeople, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner fromJerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
28:18 Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, becausethere was no cause of death in me.
28:19 But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appealunto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.
28:20 For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, andto speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound withthis chain.
28:21 And they said unto him, We neither received letters out ofJudaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewedor spake any harm of thee.
28:22 But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for asconcerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.
28:23 And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to himinto his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom ofGod, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses,and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.
28:24 And some believed the things which were spoken, and somebelieved not.
28:25 And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, afterthat Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias theprophet unto our fathers, 
28:26 Saying, Go unto this people, and say,Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shallsee, and not perceive: 
28:27 For the heart of this people is waxedgross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have theyclosed; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with theirears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and Ishould heal them.
28:28 Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God issent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.
28:29 And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and hadgreat reasoning among themselves.
28:30 And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, andreceived all that came in unto him, 
28:31 Preaching the kingdom ofGod, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ,with all confidence, no man forbidding him.