1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to thesaints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:
1:2 Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the LordJesus Christ.
1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hathblessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ:
1:4 According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of theworld, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love:
1:5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by JesusChrist to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, 
1:6 Tothe praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us acceptedin the beloved.
1:7 In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness ofsins, according to the riches of his grace; 
1:8 Wherein he hathabounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; 
1:9 Having made knownunto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure whichhe hath purposed in himself: 
1:10 That in the dispensation of thefulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ,both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him: 
1:11 Inwhom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinatedaccording to the purpose of him who worketh all things after thecounsel of his own will: 
1:12 That we should be to the praise of hisglory, who first trusted in Christ.
1:13 In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth,the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after that ye believed, yewere sealed with that holy Spirit of promise, 
1:14 Which is theearnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchasedpossession, unto the praise of his glory.
1:15 Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus,and love unto all the saints, 
1:16 Cease not to give thanks for you,making mention of you in my prayers; 
1:17 That the God of our LordJesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit ofwisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him: 
1:18 The eyes of yourunderstanding being enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope ofhis calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance inthe saints, 
1:19 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power tous-ward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power,
1:20 Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, andset him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, 
1:21 Far aboveall principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every namethat is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is tocome: 
1:22 And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to bethe head over all things to the church, 
1:23 Which is his body, thefulness of him that filleth all in all.
2:1 And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins;
2:2 Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of thisworld, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spiritthat now worketh in the children of disobedience: 
2:3 Among whom alsowe all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh,fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind; and were bynature the children of wrath, even as others.
2:4 But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith heloved us, 
2:5 Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened ustogether with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;) 
2:6 And hath raised usup together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in ChristJesus: 
2:7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding richesof his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.
2:8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not ofyourselves: it is the gift of God: 
2:9 Not of works, lest any manshould boast.
2:10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto goodworks, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.
2:11 Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in theflesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called theCircumcision in the flesh made by hands; 
2:12 That at that time yewere without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, andstrangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and withoutGod in the world: 
2:13 But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes werefar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.
2:14 For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken downthe middle wall of partition between us; 
2:15 Having abolished in hisflesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained inordinances; for to make in himself of twain one new man, so makingpeace; 
2:16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body bythe cross, having slain the enmity thereby: 
2:17 And came and preachedpeace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh.
2:18 For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto theFather.
2:19 Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, butfellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God; 
2:20 Andare built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, JesusChrist himself being the chief corner stone; 
2:21 In whom all thebuilding fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in theLord: 
2:22 In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation ofGod through the Spirit.
3:1 For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for youGentiles, 
3:2 If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of Godwhich is given me to you-ward: 
3:3 How that by revelation he madeknown unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words, 
3:4 Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mysteryof Christ) 
3:5 Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons ofmen, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by theSpirit; 
3:6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the samebody, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel: 
3:7 Whereof I was made a minister, according to the gift of the grace ofGod given unto me by the effectual working of his power.
3:8 Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this gracegiven, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable richesof Christ; 
3:9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of themystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God,who created all things by Jesus Christ: 
3:10 To the intent that nowunto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be knownby the church the manifold wisdom of God, 
3:11 According to theeternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord: 
3:12 Inwhom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him.
3:13 Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you,which is your glory.
3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord JesusChrist, 
3:15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named,
3:16 That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, tobe strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; 
3:17 ThatChrist may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted andgrounded in love, 
3:18 May be able to comprehend with all saints whatis the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; 
3:19 And to knowthe love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filledwith all the fulness of God.
3:20 Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above allthat we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, 
3:21 Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages,world without end. Amen.
4:1 I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walkworthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, 
4:2 With all lowlinessand meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; 
4:3 Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
4:4 There is one body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in onehope of your calling; 
4:5 One Lord, one faith, one baptism, 
4:6 OneGod and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in youall.
4:7 But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measureof the gift of Christ.
4:8 Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivitycaptive, and gave gifts unto men.
4:9 (Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended firstinto the lower parts of the earth?  
4:10 He that descended is the samealso that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill allthings.)  
4:11 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; andsome, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 
4:12 For theperfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for theedifying of the body of Christ: 
4:13 Till we all come in the unity ofthe faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man,unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ: 
4:14 That wehenceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried aboutwith every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunningcraftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive; 
4:15 But speaking thetruth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head,even Christ: 
4:16 From whom the whole body fitly joined together andcompacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to theeffectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of thebody unto the edifying of itself in love.
4:17 This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforthwalk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind, 
4:18 Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life ofGod through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness oftheir heart: 
4:19 Who being past feeling have given themselves overunto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.
4:20 But ye have not so learned Christ; 
4:21 If so be that ye haveheard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus: 
4:22 That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, whichis corrupt according to the deceitful lusts; 
4:23 And be renewed inthe spirit of your mind; 
4:24 And that ye put on the new man, whichafter God is created in righteousness and true holiness.
4:25 Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with hisneighbour: for we are members one of another.
4:26 Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon yourwrath: 
4:27 Neither give place to the devil.
4:28 Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour,working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have togive to him that needeth.
4:29 Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but thatwhich is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace untothe hearers.
4:30 And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed untothe day of redemption.
4:31 Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evilspeaking, be put away from you, with all malice: 
4:32 And be ye kindone to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God forChrist's sake hath forgiven you.
5:1 Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; 
5:2 And walkin love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for usan offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.
5:3 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it notbe once named among you, as becometh saints; 
5:4 Neither filthiness,nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rathergiving of thanks.
5:5 For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, norcovetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdomof Christ and of God.
5:6 Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of thesethings cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience.
5:7 Be not ye therefore partakers with them.
5:8 For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord:walk as children of light: 
5:9 (For the fruit of the Spirit is in allgoodness and righteousness and truth;) 
5:10 Proving what is acceptableunto the Lord.
5:11 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, butrather reprove them.
5:12 For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done ofthem in secret.
5:13 But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light:for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.
5:14 Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from thedead, and Christ shall give thee light.
5:15 See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
5:16 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
5:17 Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will ofthe Lord is.
5:18 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled withthe Spirit; 
5:19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns andspiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
5:20 Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father inthe name of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
5:21 Submitting yourselves one toanother in the fear of God.
5:22 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto theLord.
5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is thehead of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.
5:24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wivesbe to their own husbands in every thing.
5:25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church,and gave himself for it; 
5:26 That he might sanctify and cleanse itwith the washing of water by the word, 
5:27 That he might present itto himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any suchthing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.
5:28 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He thatloveth his wife loveth himself.
5:29 For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth andcherisheth it, even as the Lord the church: 
5:30 For we are members ofhis body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
5:31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shallbe joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
5:32 This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and thechurch.
5:33 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wifeeven as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband.
6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
6:2 Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment withpromise; 
6:3 That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live longon the earth.
6:4 And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bringthem up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
6:5 Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according tothe flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, asunto Christ; 
6:6 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as theservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart; 
6:7 Withgood will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men: 
6:8 Knowingthat whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive ofthe Lord, whether he be bond or free.
6:9 And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearingthreatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither isthere respect of persons with him.
6:10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power ofhis might.
6:11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to standagainst the wiles of the devil.
6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but againstprincipalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness ofthis world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
6:13 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may beable to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
6:14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, andhaving on the breastplate of righteousness; 
6:15 And your feet shodwith the preparation of the gospel of peace; 
6:16 Above all, takingthe shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all thefiery darts of the wicked.
6:17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,which is the word of God: 
6:18 Praying always with all prayer andsupplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with allperseverance and supplication for all saints; 
6:19 And for me, thatutterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, tomake known the mystery of the gospel, 
6:20 For which I am anambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought tospeak.
6:21 But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, abeloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known toyou all things: 
6:22 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose,that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.
6:23 Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God theFather and the Lord Jesus Christ.
6:24 Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ insincerity.Amen.