1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, untoPhilemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, 
1:2 And to ourbeloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church inthy house: 
1:3 Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and theLord Jesus Christ.
1:4 I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, 
1:5 Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus,and toward all saints; 
1:6 That the communication of thy faith maybecome effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is inyou in Christ Jesus.
1:7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because thebowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.
1:8 Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin theethat which is convenient, 
1:9 Yet for love's sake I rather beseechthee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner ofJesus Christ.
1:10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in mybonds: 
1:11 Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but nowprofitable to thee and to me: 
1:12 Whom I have sent again: thoutherefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: 
1:13 Whom I wouldhave retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered untome in the bonds of the gospel: 
1:14 But without thy mind would I donothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, butwillingly.
1:15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thoushouldest receive him for ever; 
1:16 Not now as a servant, but above aservant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more untothee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?  
1:17 If thou count metherefore a partner, receive him as myself.
1:18 If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mineaccount; 
1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repayit: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine ownself besides.
1:20 Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh mybowels in the Lord.
1:21 Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowingthat thou wilt also do more than I say.
1:22 But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that throughyour prayers I shall be given unto you.
1:23 There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;
1:24 Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.
1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.