1:1 Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all thesaints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops anddeacons: 
1:2 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, andfrom the Lord Jesus Christ.
1:3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, 
1:4 Always in everyprayer of mine for you all making request with joy, 
1:5 For yourfellowship in the gospel from the first day until now; 
1:6 Beingconfident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work inyou will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ: 
1:7 Even as it ismeet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart;inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation ofthe gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
1:8 For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in thebowels of Jesus Christ.
1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more inknowledge and in all judgment; 
1:10 That ye may approve things thatare excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the dayof Christ.
1:11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by JesusChrist, unto the glory and praise of God.
1:12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things whichhappened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of thegospel; 
1:13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all thepalace, and in all other places; 
1:14 And many of the brethren in theLord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak theword without fear.
1:15 Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some alsoof good will: 
1:16 The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely,supposing to add affliction to my bonds: 
1:17 But the other of love,knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
1:18 What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or intruth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and willrejoice.
1:19 For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through yourprayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 
1:20 Accordingto my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall beashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christshall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
1:22 But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yetwhat I shall choose I wot not.
1:23 For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, andto be with Christ; which is far better: 
1:24 Nevertheless to abide inthe flesh is more needful for you.
1:25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide andcontinue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith; 
1:26 Thatyour rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by mycoming to you again.
1:27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel ofChrist: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hearof your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mindstriving together for the faith of the gospel; 
1:28 And in nothingterrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token ofperdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
1:29 For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only tobelieve on him, but also to suffer for his sake; 
1:30 Having the sameconflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
2:1 If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort oflove, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, 
2:2 Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, beingof one accord, of one mind.
2:3 Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowlinessof mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
2:4 Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on thethings of others.
2:5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: 
2:6 Who,being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
2:7 But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of aservant, and was made in the likeness of men: 
2:8 And being found infashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death,even the death of the cross.
2:9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a namewhich is above every name: 
2:10 That at the name of Jesus every kneeshould bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things underthe earth; 
2:11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christis Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
2:12 Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in mypresence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your ownsalvation with fear and trembling.
2:13 For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of hisgood pleasure.
2:14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings: 
2:15 That ye maybe blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in themidst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lightsin the world; 
2:16 Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoicein the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured invain.
2:17 Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of yourfaith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
2:18 For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
2:19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you,that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
2:20 For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for yourstate.
2:21 For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
2:22 But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, hehath served with me in the gospel.
2:23 Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall seehow it will go with me.
2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly.
2:25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, mybrother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but yourmessenger, and he that ministered to my wants.
2:26 For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, becausethat ye had heard that he had been sick.
2:27 For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him;and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow uponsorrow.
2:28 I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see himagain, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
2:29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and holdsuch in reputation: 
2:30 Because for the work of Christ he was nighunto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of servicetoward me.
3:1 Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the samethings to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
3:3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, andrejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
3:4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other manthinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more: 
3:5 Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe ofBenjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee;
3:6 Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; touching therighteousness which is in the law, blameless.
3:7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.
3:8 Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellencyof the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered theloss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,
3:9 And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which isof the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, therighteousness which is of God by faith: 
3:10 That I may know him, andthe power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings,being made conformable unto his death; 
3:11 If by any means I mightattain unto the resurrection of the dead.
3:12 Not as though I had already attained, either were alreadyperfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for whichalso I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.
3:13 Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this onething I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reachingforth unto those things which are before, 
3:14 I press toward the markfor the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
3:15 Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and ifin any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this untoyou.
3:16 Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk bythe same rule, let us mind the same thing.
3:17 Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walkso as ye have us for an ensample.
3:18 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell youeven weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: 
3:19 Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory isin their shame, who mind earthly things.)  
3:20 For our conversationis in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord JesusChrist: 
3:21 Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashionedlike unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he isable even to subdue all things unto himself.
4:1 Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy andcrown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved.
4:2 I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the samemind in the Lord.
4:3 And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women whichlaboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other myfellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.
4:4 Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice.
4:5 Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
4:6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer andsupplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known untoGod.
4:7 And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keepyour hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
4:8 Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever thingsare honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure,whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; ifthere be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on thesethings.
4:9 Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard,and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last yourcare of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were also careful, but yelacked opportunity.
4:11 Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, inwhatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.
4:12 I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound: everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to behungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
4:13 I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.
4:14 Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate withmy affliction.
4:15 Now ye Philippians know also, that in the beginning of thegospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with meas concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
4:16 For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto mynecessity.
4:17 Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may aboundto your account.
4:18 But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received ofEpaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweetsmell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.
4:19 But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches inglory by Christ Jesus.
4:20 Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
4:21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are withme greet you.
4:22 All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar'shousehold.
4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.