1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shewunto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sentand signified it by his angel unto his servant John: 
1:2 Who barerecord of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, andof all things that he saw.
1:3 Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of thisprophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for thetime is at hand.
1:4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you,and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; andfrom the seven Spirits which are before his throne; 
1:5 And from JesusChrist, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of thedead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that lovedus, and washed us from our sins in his own blood, 
1:6 And hath made uskings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory anddominion for ever and ever. Amen.
1:7 Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, andthey also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wailbecause of him. Even so, Amen.
1:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith theLord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.
1:9 I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation,and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle thatis called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of JesusChrist.
1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me agreat voice, as of a trumpet, 
1:11 Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, thefirst and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send itunto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and untoSmyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, andunto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.
1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And beingturned, I saw seven golden candlesticks; 
1:13 And in the midst of theseven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with agarment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a goldengirdle.
1:14 His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow;and his eyes were as a flame of fire; 
1:15 And his feet like unto finebrass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound ofmany waters.
1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouthwent a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as the sunshineth in his strength.
1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid hisright hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and thelast: 
1:18 I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alivefor evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.
1:19 Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are,and the things which shall be hereafter; 
1:20 The mystery of the sevenstars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven goldencandlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches:and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.
2:1 Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saithhe that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in themidst of the seven golden candlesticks; 
2:2 I know thy works, and thylabour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which areevil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and arenot, and hast found them liars: 
2:3 And hast borne, and hast patience,and for my name's sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.
2:4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast leftthy first love.
2:5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and dothe first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and willremove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.
2:6 But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of theNicolaitanes, which I also hate.
2:7 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree oflife, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
2:8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These thingssaith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive; 
2:9 I knowthy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and Iknow the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, butare the synagogue of Satan.
2:10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, thedevil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and yeshall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and Iwill give thee a crown of life.
2:11 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.
2:12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These thingssaith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges; 
2:13 I know thyworks, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is: and thouholdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those dayswherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, whereSatan dwelleth.
2:14 But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast therethem that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast astumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificedunto idols, and to commit fornication.
2:15 So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of theNicolaitanes, which thing I hate.
2:16 Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fightagainst them with the sword of my mouth.
2:17 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hiddenmanna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new namewritten, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.
2:18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These thingssaith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, andhis feet are like fine brass; 
2:19 I know thy works, and charity, andservice, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last tobe more than the first.
2:20 Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thousufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, toteach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eatthings sacrificed unto idols.
2:21 And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and sherepented not.
2:22 Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adulterywith her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.
2:23 And I will kill her children with death; and all the churchesshall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts: and Iwill give unto every one of you according to your works.
2:24 But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many ashave not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan,as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.
2:25 But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.
2:26 And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to himwill I give power over the nations: 
2:27 And he shall rule them with arod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken toshivers: even as I received of my Father.
2:28 And I will give him the morning star.
2:29 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches.
3:1 And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These thingssaith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; Iknow thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.
3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that areready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.
3:3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and holdfast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come onthee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come uponthee.
3:4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled theirgarments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.
3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment;and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I willconfess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
3:6 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches.
3:7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These thingssaith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David,he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no manopeneth; 
3:8 I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an opendoor, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, andhast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
3:9 Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say theyare Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to comeand worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.
3:10 Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keepthee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world,to try them that dwell upon the earth.
3:11 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that noman take thy crown.
3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God,and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of myGod, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, whichcometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him mynew name.
3:13 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches.
3:14 And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; Thesethings saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning ofthe creation of God; 
3:15 I know thy works, that thou art neither coldnor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.
3:16 So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, Iwill spue thee out of my mouth.
3:17 Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, andhave need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, andmiserable, and poor, and blind, and naked: 
3:18 I counsel thee to buyof me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and whiteraiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thynakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, thatthou mayest see.
3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore,and repent.
3:20 Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice,and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, andhe with me.
3:21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne,even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.
3:22 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto thechurches.
4:1 After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: andthe first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking withme; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which mustbe hereafter.
4:2 And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was setin heaven, and one sat on the throne.
4:3 And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardinestone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight likeunto an emerald.
4:4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and uponthe seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in whiteraiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.
4:5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings andvoices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,which are the seven Spirits of God.
4:6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal:and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were fourbeasts full of eyes before and behind.
4:7 And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like acalf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beastwas like a flying eagle.
4:8 And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and theywere full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying,Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is tocome.
4:9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him thatsat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever, 
4:10 The four andtwenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worshiphim that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before thethrone, saying, 
4:11 Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory andhonour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thypleasure they are and were created.
5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a bookwritten within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.
5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who isworthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?  
5:3 And noman in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to openthe book, neither to look thereon.
5:4 And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and toread the book, neither to look thereon.
5:5 And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion ofthe tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book,and to loose the seven seals thereof.
5:6 And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the fourbeasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had beenslain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spiritsof God sent forth into all the earth.
5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him thatsat upon the throne.
5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four andtwenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of themharps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers ofsaints.
5:9 And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take thebook, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hastredeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, andpeople, and nation; 
5:10 And hast made us unto our God kings andpriests: and we shall reign on the earth.
5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round aboutthe throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them wasten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; 
5:12 Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receivepower, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory,and blessing.
5:13 And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, andunder the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be untohim that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.
5:14 And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty eldersfell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.
6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, asit were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come andsee.
6:2 And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had abow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, andto conquer.
6:3 And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beastsay, Come and see.
6:4 And there went out another horse that was red: and power was givento him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that theyshould kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.
6:5 And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beastsay, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that saton him had a pair of balances in his hand.
6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measureof wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; andsee thou hurt not the oil and the wine.
6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of thefourth beast say, Come and see.
6:8 And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat onhim was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given untothem over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and withhunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
6:9 And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar thesouls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for thetestimony which they held: 
6:10 And they cried with a loud voice,saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge andavenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?  
6:11 And whiterobes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them,that they should rest yet for a little season, until theirfellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as theywere, should be fulfilled.
6:12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, therewas a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,and the moon became as blood; 
6:13 And the stars of heaven fell untothe earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she isshaken of a mighty wind.
6:14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together;and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men,and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, andevery free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of themountains; 
6:16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, andhide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from thewrath of the Lamb: 
6:17 For the great day of his wrath is come; andwho shall be able to stand?  
7:1 And after these things I saw fourangels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the fourwinds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor onthe sea, nor on any tree.
7:2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the sealof the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels,to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, 
7:3 Saying, Hurtnot the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed theservants of our God in their foreheads.
7:4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there weresealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of thechildren of Israel.
7:5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe ofReuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealedtwelve thousand.
7:6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe ofNephthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses weresealed twelve thousand.
7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribeof Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar weresealed twelve thousand.
7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribeof Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin weresealed twelve thousand.
7:9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no mancould number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with whiterobes, and palms in their hands; 
7:10 And cried with a loud voice,saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and untothe Lamb.
7:11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about theelders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces,and worshipped God, 
7:12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, andwisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be untoour God for ever and ever. Amen.
7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are thesewhich are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?  
7:14 And Isaid unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are theywhich came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, andmade them white in the blood of the Lamb.
7:15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him dayand night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwellamong them.
7:16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shallthe sun light on them, nor any heat.
7:17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them,and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shallwipe away all tears from their eyes.
8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence inheaven about the space of half an hour.
8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to themwere given seven trumpets.
8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a goldencenser; and there was given unto him much incense, that he shouldoffer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar whichwas before the throne.
8:4 And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of thesaints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.
8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of thealtar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, andthunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets preparedthemselves to sound.
8:7 The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingledwith blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part oftrees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
8:8 And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountainburning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the seabecame blood; 
8:9 And the third part of the creatures which were inthe sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships weredestroyed.
8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star fromheaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part ofthe rivers, and upon the fountains of waters; 
8:11 And the name of thestar is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters becamewormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were madebitter.
8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun wassmitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of thestars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shonenot for a third part of it, and the night likewise.
8:13 And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst ofheaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters ofthe earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the threeangels, which are yet to sound!  
9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, andI saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given thekey of the bottomless pit.
9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out ofthe pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air weredarkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.
9:3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and untothem was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
9:4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass ofthe earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only thosemen which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.
9:5 And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but thatthey should be tormented five months: and their torment was as thetorment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.
9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; andshall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.
9:7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared untobattle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and theirfaces were as the faces of men.
9:8 And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were asthe teeth of lions.
9:9 And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; andthe sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horsesrunning to battle.
9:10 And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings intheir tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.
9:11 And they had a king over them, which is the angel of thebottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in theGreek tongue hath his name Apollyon.
9:12 One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.
9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the fourhorns of the golden altar which is before God, 
9:14 Saying to thesixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which arebound in the great river Euphrates.
9:15 And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour,and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.
9:16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundredthousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.
9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat onthem, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: andthe heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of theirmouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.
9:18 By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, andby the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.
9:19 For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for theirtails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they dohurt.
9:20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plaguesyet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should notworship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk: 
9:21 Neitherrepented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of theirfornication, nor of their thefts.
10:1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothedwith a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as itwere the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire: 
10:2 And he had in hishand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, andhis left foot on the earth, 
10:3 And cried with a loud voice, as whena lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered theirvoices.
10:4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was aboutto write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal upthose things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.
10:5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earthlifted up his hand to heaven, 
10:6 And sware by him that liveth forever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are,and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and thethings which are therein, that there should be time no longer: 
10:7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall beginto sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declaredto his servants the prophets.
10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, andsaid, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of theangel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.
10:9 And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the littlebook. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall makethy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.
10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate itup; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eatenit, my belly was bitter.
10:11 And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before manypeoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.
11:1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angelstood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, andthem that worship therein.
11:2 But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measureit not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shallthey tread under foot forty and two months.
11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shallprophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed insackcloth.
11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standingbefore the God of the earth.
11:5 And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of theirmouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, hemust in this manner be killed.
11:6 These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days oftheir prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, andto smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.
11:7 And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast thatascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, andshall overcome them, and kill them.
11:8 And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city,which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord wascrucified.
11:9 And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shallsee their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffertheir dead bodies to be put in graves.
11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, andmake merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these twoprophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.
11:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from Godentered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fellupon them which saw them.
11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Comeup hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and theirenemies beheld them.
11:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenthpart of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seventhousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the Godof heaven.
11:14 The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe comethquickly.
11:15 And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices inheaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms ofour Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.
11:16 And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on theirseats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, 
11:17 Saying, Wegive thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art tocome; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hastreigned.
11:18 And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the timeof the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest givereward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and themthat fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them whichdestroy the earth.
11:19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seenin his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, andvoices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.
12:1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed withthe sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown oftwelve stars: 
12:2 And she being with child cried, travailing inbirth, and pained to be delivered.
12:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a greatred dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns uponhis heads.
12:4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and didcast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman whichwas ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it wasborn.
12:5 And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nationswith a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to histhrone.
12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a placeprepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand twohundred and threescore days.
12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels foughtagainst the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 
12:8 Andprevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.
12:9 And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called theDevil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast outinto the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is comesalvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power ofhis Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, whichaccused them before our God day and night.
12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the wordof their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.
12:12 Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe tothe inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come downunto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but ashort time.
12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, hepersecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.
12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that shemight fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourishedfor a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after thewoman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.
12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth,and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make warwith the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, andhave the testimony of Jesus Christ.
13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up outof the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns tencrowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.
13:2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feetwere as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: andthe dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.
13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and hisdeadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.
13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? whois able to make war with him?  
13:5 And there was given unto him amouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given untohim to continue forty and two months.
13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blasphemehis name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.
13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and toovercome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues,and nations.
13:8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose namesare not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from thefoundation of the world.
13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear.
13:10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he thatkilleth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is thepatience and the faith of the saints.
13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and hehad two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.
13:12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him,and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship thefirst beast, whose deadly wound was healed.
13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come downfrom heaven on the earth in the sight of men, 
13:14 And deceiveth themthat dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he hadpower to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell onthe earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had thewound by a sword, and did live.
13:15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, thatthe image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many aswould not worship the image of the beast should be killed.
13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, freeand bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in theirforeheads: 
13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that hadthe mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the numberof the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Sixhundred threescore and six.
14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and withhim an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's namewritten in their foreheads.
14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, andas the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpersharping with their harps: 
14:3 And they sung as it were a new songbefore the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and noman could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,which were redeemed from the earth.
14:4 These are they which were not defiled with women; for they arevirgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God andto the Lamb.
14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without faultbefore the throne of God.
14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having theeverlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and toevery nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 
14:7 Saying with aloud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of hisjudgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and thesea, and the fountains of waters.
14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, isfallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of thewine of the wrath of her fornication.
14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, Ifany man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in hisforehead, or in his hand, 
14:10 The same shall drink of the wine ofthe wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup ofhis indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone inthe presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever:and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and hisimage, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.
14:12 Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep thecommandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessedare the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith theSpirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works dofollow them.
14:14 And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud onesat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, andin his hand a sharp sickle.
14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loudvoice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth isripe.
14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth;and the earth was reaped.
14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, healso having a sharp sickle.
14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power overfire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of thevine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.
14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gatheredthe vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of thewrath of God.
14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood cameout of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of athousand and six hundred furlongs.
15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, sevenangels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up thewrath of God.
15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and themthat had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, andover his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea ofglass, having the harps of God.
15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the songof the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord GodAlmighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.
15:4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thouonly art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; forthy judgments are made manifest.
15:5 And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of thetabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 
15:6 And the sevenangels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed inpure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with goldengirdles.
15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels sevengolden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.
15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, andfrom his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till theseven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.
16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the sevenangels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God uponthe earth.
16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; andthere fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the markof the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.
16:3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and itbecame as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in thesea.
16:4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers andfountains of waters; and they became blood.
16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, OLord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judgedthus.
16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thouhast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.
16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord GodAlmighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.
16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and powerwas given unto him to scorch men with fire.
16:9 And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name ofGod, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not togive him glory.
16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of thebeast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed theirtongues for pain, 
16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because oftheir pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.
16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great riverEuphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of thekings of the east might be prepared.
16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouthof the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouthof the false prophet.
16:14 For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which goforth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gatherthem to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, andkeepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.
16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrewtongue Armageddon.
16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; andthere came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,saying, It is done.
16:18 And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and therewas a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth,so mighty an earthquake, and so great.
16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the citiesof the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God,to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stoneabout the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of theplague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
17:1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials,and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto theethe judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters: 
17:2 With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and theinhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of herfornication.
17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and Isaw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names ofblasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, anddecked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cupin her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:
17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THEGREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
17:6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, andwith the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wonderedwith great admiration.
17:7 And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I willtell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carriethher, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.
17:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend outof the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell onthe earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book oflife from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast thatwas, and is not, and yet is.
17:9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are sevenmountains, on which the woman sitteth.
17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and theother is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a shortspace.
17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, andis of the seven, and goeth into perdition.
17:12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which havereceived no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour withthe beast.
17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strengthunto the beast.
17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcomethem: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that arewith him are called, and chosen, and faithful.
17:15 And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where thewhore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.
17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shallhate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eather flesh, and burn her with fire.
17:17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and toagree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of Godshall be fulfilled.
17:18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, whichreigneth over the kings of the earth.
18:1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven,having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.
18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon thegreat is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils,and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean andhateful bird.
18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of herfornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornicationwith her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through theabundance of her delicacies.
18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her,my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receivenot of her plagues.
18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath rememberedher iniquities.
18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her doubleaccording to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to herdouble.
18:7 How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, somuch torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit aqueen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.
18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning,and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong isthe Lord God who judgeth her.
18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication andlived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, whenthey shall see the smoke of her burning, 
18:10 Standing afar off forthe fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon,that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.
18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her;for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: 
18:12 The merchandise ofgold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen,and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all mannervessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and ofbrass, and iron, and marble, 
18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, andointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, andwheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves,and souls of men.
18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed fromthee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed fromthee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.
18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her,shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
18:16 And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in finelinen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and preciousstones, and pearls!  
18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come tonought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, andsailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, 
18:18 And criedwhen they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like untothis great city!  
18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried,weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein weremade rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness!for in one hour is she made desolate.
18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles andprophets; for God hath avenged you on her.
18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, andcast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great cityBabylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.
18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, andtrumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman,of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and thesound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee; 
18:23 Andthe light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and thevoice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at allin thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thysorceries were all nations deceived.
18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, andof all that were slain upon the earth.
19:1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people inheaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power,unto the Lord our God: 
19:2 For true and righteous are his judgments:for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth withher fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at herhand.
19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever andever.
19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down andworshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.
19:5 And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, allye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.
19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as thevoice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying,Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.
19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for themarriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.
19:8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen,clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.
19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are calledunto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These arethe true sayings of God.
19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, Seethou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that havethe testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is thespirit of prophecy.
19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he thatsat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness hedoth judge and make war.
19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were manycrowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.
19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his nameis called The Word of God.
19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon whitehorses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
19:15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he shouldsmite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and hetreadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.
19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KINGOF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loudvoice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Comeand gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; 
19:18 That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and theflesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit onthem, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small andgreat.
19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and theirarmies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on thehorse, and against his army.
19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet thatwrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that hadreceived the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image.These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.
19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat uponthe horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowlswere filled with their flesh.
20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of thebottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is theDevil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, 
20:3 And cast himinto the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him,that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand yearsshould be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.
20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was givenunto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for thewitness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had notworshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his markupon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reignedwith Christ a thousand years.
20:5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand yearswere finished. This is the first resurrection.
20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests ofGod and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosedout of his prison, 
20:8 And shall go out to deceive the nations whichare in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather themtogether to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
20:9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed thecamp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came downfrom God out of heaven, and devoured them.
20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fireand brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall betormented day and night for ever and ever.
20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, fromwhose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found noplace for them.
20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and thebooks were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book oflife: and the dead were judged out of those things which were writtenin the books, according to their works.
20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death andhell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judgedevery man according to their works.
20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is thesecond death.
20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was castinto the lake of fire.
21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven andthe first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.
21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from Godout of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, thetabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and theyshall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be theirGod.
21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and thereshall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shallthere be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.
21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all thingsnew.And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.
21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, thebeginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of thefountain of the water of life freely.
21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be hisGod, and he shall be my son.
21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, andmurderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and allliars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire andbrimstone: which is the second death.
21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had theseven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me,saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and highmountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem,descending out of heaven from God, 
21:11 Having the glory of God: andher light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasperstone, clear as crystal; 
21:12 And had a wall great and high, and hadtwelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names writtenthereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children ofIsrael: 
21:13 On the east three gates; on the north three gates; onthe south three gates; and on the west three gates.
21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them thenames of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
21:15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure thecity, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as thebreadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousandfurlongs.The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
21:17 And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and fourcubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.
21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the citywas pure gold, like unto clear glass.
21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished withall manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; thesecond, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;
21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, achrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.
21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate wasof one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it weretransparent glass.
21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and theLamb are the temple of it.
21:23 And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, toshine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is thelight thereof.
21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the lightof it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour intoit.
21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for thereshall be no night there.
21:26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations intoit.
21:27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing thatdefileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: butthey which are written in the Lamb's book of life.
22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal,proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
22:2 In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of theriver, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits,and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were forthe healing of the nations.
22:3 And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and ofthe Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: 
22:4 Andthey shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.
22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle,neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and theyshall reign for ever and ever.
22:6 And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and theLord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servantsthe things which must shortly be done.
22:7 Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings ofthe prophecy of this book.
22:8 And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heardand seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel whichshewed me these things.
22:9 Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thyfellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them whichkeep the sayings of this book: worship God.
22:10 And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy ofthis book: for the time is at hand.
22:11 He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which isfilthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him berighteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
22:12 And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to giveevery man according as his work shall be.
22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first andthe last.
22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may haveright to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into thecity.
22:15 For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, andmurderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.
22:16 I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things inthe churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the brightand morning star.
22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that hearethsay, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, lethim take the water of life freely.
22:18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of theprophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, Godshall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: 
22:19 And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of thisprophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, andout of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.
22:20 He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.Amen.Even so, come, Lord Jesus.
22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.