1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle,separated unto the gospel of God, 
1:2 (Which he had promised afore byhis prophets in the holy scriptures,) 
1:3 Concerning his Son JesusChrist our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to theflesh; 
1:4 And declared to be the Son of God with power, according tothe spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead: 
1:5 By whomwe have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faithamong all nations, for his name: 
1:6 Among whom are ye also the calledof Jesus Christ: 
1:7 To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called tobe saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the LordJesus Christ.
1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that yourfaith is spoken of throughout the whole world.
1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospelof his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in myprayers; 
1:10 Making request, if by any means now at length I mighthave a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you.
1:11 For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritualgift, to the end ye may be established; 
1:12 That is, that I may becomforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me.
1:13 Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes Ipurposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might havesome fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.
1:14 I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both tothe wise, and to the unwise.
1:15 So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to youthat are at Rome also.
1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the powerof God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first,and also to the Greek.
1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith tofaith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.
1:18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against allungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth inunrighteousness; 
1:19 Because that which may be known of God ismanifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.
1:20 For the invisible things of him from the creation of the worldare clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, evenhis eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse: 
1:21 Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God,neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, andtheir foolish heart was darkened.
1:22 Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, 
1:23 Andchanged the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like tocorruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creepingthings.
1:24 Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lustsof their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:
1:25 Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped andserved the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever.Amen.
1:26 For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for eventheir women did change the natural use into that which is againstnature: 
1:27 And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of thewoman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men workingthat which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence oftheir error which was meet.
1:28 And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge,God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which arenot convenient; 
1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness,fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy,murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers, 
1:30 Backbiters, hatersof God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things,disobedient to parents, 
1:31 Without understanding, covenantbreakers,without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful: 
1:32 Who knowingthe judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy ofdeath, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.
2:1 Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art thatjudgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself;for thou that judgest doest the same things.
2:2 But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truthagainst them which commit such things.
2:3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do suchthings, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment ofGod?  
2:4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearanceand longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth theeto repentance?  
2:5 But after thy hardness and impenitent hearttreasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath andrevelation of the righteous judgment of God; 
2:6 Who will render toevery man according to his deeds: 
2:7 To them who by patientcontinuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality,eternal life: 
2:8 But unto them that are contentious, and do not obeythe truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, 
2:9 Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth evil, ofthe Jew first, and also of the Gentile; 
2:10 But glory, honour, andpeace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also tothe Gentile: 
2:11 For there is no respect of persons with God.
2:12 For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish withoutlaw: and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;
2:13 (For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but thedoers of the law shall be justified.
2:14 For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature thethings contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law untothemselves: 
2:15 Which shew the work of the law written in theirhearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts themean while accusing or else excusing one another;) 
2:16 In the daywhen God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according tomy gospel.
2:17 Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makestthy boast of God, 
2:18 And knowest his will, and approvest the thingsthat are more excellent, being instructed out of the law; 
2:19 And artconfident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of themwhich are in darkness, 
2:20 An instructor of the foolish, a teacher ofbabes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.
2:21 Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?  
2:22 Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commitadultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?  
2:23 Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the lawdishonourest thou God?  
2:24 For the name of God is blasphemed amongthe Gentiles through you, as it is written.
2:25 For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but ifthou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.
2:26 Therefore if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of thelaw, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?  
2:27 And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law,judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress thelaw?  
2:28 For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither isthat circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: 
2:29 But he is aJew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, inthe spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but ofGod.
3:1 What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit is there ofcircumcision?  
3:2 Much every way: chiefly, because that unto themwere committed the oracles of God.
3:3 For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make thefaith of God without effect?  
3:4 God forbid: yea, let God be true,but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest bejustified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged.
3:5 But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, whatshall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as aman) 
3:6 God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world?  
3:7 Forif the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory;why yet am I also judged as a sinner?  
3:8 And not rather, (as we beslanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us doevil, that good may come? whose damnation is just.
3:9 What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we havebefore proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin;
3:10 As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: 
3:11 There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh afterGod.
3:12 They are all gone out of the way, they are together becomeunprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.
3:13 Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they haveused deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips: 
3:14 Whose mouthis full of cursing and bitterness: 
3:15 Their feet are swift to shedblood: 
3:16 Destruction and misery are in their ways: 
3:17 And the wayof peace have they not known: 
3:18 There is no fear of God beforetheir eyes.
3:19 Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith tothem who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and allthe world may become guilty before God.
3:20 Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh bejustified in his sight: for by the law is the knowledge of sin.
3:21 But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested,being witnessed by the law and the prophets; 
3:22 Even therighteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all andupon all them that believe: for there is no difference: 
3:23 For allhave sinned, and come short of the glory of God; 
3:24 Being justifiedfreely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus:
3:25 Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in hisblood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that arepast, through the forbearance of God; 
3:26 To declare, I say, at thistime his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier ofhim which believeth in Jesus.
3:27 Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works?Nay: but by the law of faith.
3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith withoutthe deeds of the law.
3:29 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles?Yes, of the Gentiles also: 
3:30 Seeing it is one God, which shalljustify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.
3:31 Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, weestablish the law.
4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining tothe flesh, hath found?  
4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, hehath whereof to glory; but not before God.
4:3 For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it wascounted unto him for righteousness.
4:4 Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, butof debt.
4:5 But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieththe ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.
4:6 Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, untowhom God imputeth righteousness without works, 
4:7 Saying, Blessed arethey whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
4:8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.
4:9 Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or uponthe uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abrahamfor righteousness.
4:10 How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or inuncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of therighteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised: thathe might be the father of all them that believe, though they be notcircumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also: 
4:12 And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcisiononly, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our fatherAbraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised.
4:13 For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was notto Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through therighteousness of faith.
4:14 For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void,and the promise made of none effect: 
4:15 Because the law workethwrath: for where no law is, there is no transgression.
4:16 Therefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the endthe promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which isof the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who isthe father of us all, 
4:17 (As it is written, I have made thee afather of many nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, whoquickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as thoughthey were.
4:18 Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become thefather of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shallthy seed be.
4:19 And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body nowdead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadnessof Sarah's womb: 
4:20 He staggered not at the promise of God throughunbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; 
4:21 And beingfully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also toperform.
4:22 And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.
4:23 Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed tohim; 
4:24 But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believeon him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead; 
4:25 Who wasdelivered for our offences, and was raised again for ourjustification.
5:1 Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God throughour Lord Jesus Christ: 
5:2 By whom also we have access by faith intothis grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
5:3 And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing thattribulation worketh patience; 
5:4 And patience, experience; andexperience, hope: 
5:5 And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love ofGod is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given untous.
5:6 For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died forthe ungodly.
5:7 For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventurefor a good man some would even dare to die.
5:8 But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yetsinners, Christ died for us.
5:9 Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall besaved from wrath through him.
5:10 For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by thedeath of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved byhis life.
5:11 And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord JesusChrist, by whom we have now received the atonement.
5:12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death bysin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: 
5:13 (For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed whenthere is no law.
5:14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over themthat had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, whois the figure of him that was to come.
5:15 But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if throughthe offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and thegift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded untomany.
5:16 And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for thejudgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of manyoffences unto justification.
5:17 For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more theywhich receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousnessshall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)  
5:18 Therefore as by theoffence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so bythe righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men untojustification of life.
5:19 For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so bythe obedience of one shall many be made righteous.
5:20 Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. Butwhere sin abounded, grace did much more abound: 
5:21 That as sin hathreigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousnessunto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.
6:1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace mayabound?  
6:2 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live anylonger therein?  
6:3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptizedinto Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?  
6:4 Therefore we areburied with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raisedup from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also shouldwalk in newness of life.
6:5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death,we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 
6:6 Knowingthis, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sinmight be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.
6:7 For he that is dead is freed from sin.
6:8 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also livewith him: 
6:9 Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth nomore; death hath no more dominion over him.
6:10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that heliveth, he liveth unto God.
6:11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin,but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
6:12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye shouldobey it in the lusts thereof.
6:13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousnessunto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive fromthe dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.
6:14 For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not underthe law, but under grace.
6:15 What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, butunder grace? God forbid.
6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey,his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or ofobedience unto righteousness?  
6:17 But God be thanked, that ye werethe servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form ofdoctrine which was delivered you.
6:18 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants ofrighteousness.
6:19 I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of yourflesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness andto iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants torighteousness unto holiness.
6:20 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free fromrighteousness.
6:21 What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are nowashamed?  for the end of those things is death.
6:22 But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, yehave your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.
6:23 For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternallife through Jesus Christ our Lord.
7:1 Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,)how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?  
7:2 For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husbandso long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed fromthe law of her husband.
7:3 So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to anotherman, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead,she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she bemarried to another man.
7:4 Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by thebody of Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him whois raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God.
7:5 For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were bythe law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.
7:6 But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein wewere held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in theoldness of the letter.
7:7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had notknown sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the lawhad said, Thou shalt not covet.
7:8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me allmanner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.
7:9 For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandmentcame, sin revived, and I died.
7:10 And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to beunto death.
7:11 For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and byit slew me.
7:12 Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just,and good.
7:13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. Butsin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which isgood; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.
7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, soldunder sin.
7:15 For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not;but what I hate, that do I.
7:16 If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law thatit is good.
7:17 Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.
7:18 For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no goodthing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that whichis good I find not.
7:19 For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I wouldnot, that I do.
7:20 Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sinthat dwelleth in me.
7:21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is presentwith me.
7:22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: 
7:23 But Isee another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, andbringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.
7:24 O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body ofthis death?  
7:25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So thenwith the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh thelaw of sin.
8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in ChristJesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made mefree from the law of sin and death.
8:3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through theflesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, andfor sin, condemned sin in the flesh: 
8:4 That the righteousness of thelaw might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but afterthe Spirit.
8:5 For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh;but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.
8:6 For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually mindedis life and peace.
8:7 Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is notsubject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.
8:8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.
8:9 But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that theSpirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit ofChrist, he is none of his.
8:10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but theSpirit is life because of righteousness.
8:11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwellin you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken yourmortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
8:12 Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to liveafter the flesh.
8:13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye throughthe Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons ofGod.
8:15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; butye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
8:16 The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we arethe children of God: 
8:17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God,and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that wemay be also glorified together.
8:18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are notworthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.
8:19 For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for themanifestation of the sons of God.
8:20 For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, butby reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope, 
8:21 Because thecreature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruptioninto the glorious liberty of the children of God.
8:22 For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth inpain together until now.
8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruitsof the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting forthe adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.
8:24 For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: forwhat a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?  
8:25 But if we hope forthat we see not, then do we with patience wait for it.
8:26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know notwhat we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself makethintercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
8:27 And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of theSpirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to thewill of God.
8:28 And we know that all things work together for good to them thatlove God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.
8:29 For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to beconformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstbornamong many brethren.
8:30 Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whomhe called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he alsoglorified.
8:31 What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who canbe against us?  
8:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered himup for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us allthings?  
8:33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect? Itis God that justifieth.
8:34 Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather,that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who alsomaketh intercession for us.
8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation,or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, orsword?  
8:36 As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the daylong; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
8:37 Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through himthat loved us.
8:38 For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, norprincipalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
8:39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able toseparate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
9:1 I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearingme witness in the Holy Ghost, 
9:2 That I have great heaviness andcontinual sorrow in my heart.
9:3 For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for mybrethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh: 
9:4 Who are Israelites;to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, andthe giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises; 
9:5 Whose are the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christcame, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.
9:6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they arenot all Israel, which are of Israel: 
9:7 Neither, because they are theseed of Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seedbe called.
9:8 That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are notthe children of God: but the children of the promise are counted forthe seed.
9:9 For this is the word of promise, At this time will I come, andSarah shall have a son.
9:10 And not only this; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one,even by our father Isaac; 
9:11 (For the children being not yet born,neither having done any good or evil, that the purpose of Godaccording to election might stand, not of works, but of him thatcalleth;) 
9:12 It was said unto her, The elder shall serve theyounger.
9:13 As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.
9:14 What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? Godforbid.
9:15 For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will havemercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.
9:16 So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth,but of God that sheweth mercy.
9:17 For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purposehave I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that myname might be declared throughout all the earth.
9:18 Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom hewill he hardeneth.
9:19 Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For whohath resisted his will?  
9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou thatrepliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formedit, Why hast thou made me thus?  
9:21 Hath not the potter power overthe clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and anotherunto dishonour?  
9:22 What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and tomake his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels ofwrath fitted to destruction: 
9:23 And that he might make known theriches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had aforeprepared unto glory, 
9:24 Even us, whom he hath called, not of theJews only, but also of the Gentiles?  
9:25 As he saith also in Osee, Iwill call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved,which was not beloved.
9:26 And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was saidunto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called thechildren of the living God.
9:27 Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of thechildren of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall besaved: 
9:28 For he will finish the work, and cut it short inrighteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.
9:29 And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left usa seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha.
9:30 What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed notafter righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even therighteousness which is of faith.
9:31 But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hathnot attained to the law of righteousness.
9:32 Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were bythe works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone; 
9:33 As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock ofoffence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.
10:1 Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, thatthey might be saved.
10:2 For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but notaccording to knowledge.
10:3 For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going aboutto establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselvesunto the righteousness of God.
10:4 For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every onethat believeth.
10:5 For Moses describeth the righteousness which is of the law, Thatthe man which doeth those things shall live by them.
10:6 But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise,Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, tobring Christ down from above:) 
10:7 Or, Who shall descend into thedeep? (that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.)  
10:8 Butwhat saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thyheart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach; 
10:9 That if thoushalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe inthine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt besaved.
10:10 For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and withthe mouth confession is made unto salvation.
10:11 For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not beashamed.
10:12 For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: forthe same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him.
10:13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall besaved.
10:14 How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed?and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and howshall they hear without a preacher?  
10:15 And how shall they preach,except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet ofthem that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of goodthings!  
10:16 But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaiassaith, Lord, who hath believed our report?  
10:17 So then faith comethby hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
10:18 But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound wentinto all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.
10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I willprovoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolishnation I will anger you.
10:20 But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them thatsought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me.
10:21 But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth myhands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people.
11:1 I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I alsoam an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye notwhat the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to Godagainst Israel saying, 
11:3 Lord, they have killed thy prophets, anddigged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.
11:4 But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved tomyself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image ofBaal.
11:5 Even so then at this present time also there is a remnantaccording to the election of grace.
11:6 And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace isno more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more grace:otherwise work is no more work.
11:7 What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for;but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded.
11:8 (According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit ofslumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should nothear;) unto this day.
11:9 And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, anda stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them: 
11:10 Let their eyes bedarkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway.
11:11 I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? Godforbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto theGentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.
11:12 Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and thediminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more theirfulness?  
11:13 For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am theapostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office: 
11:14 If by any meansI may provoke to emulation them which are my flesh, and might savesome of them.
11:15 For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world,what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?  
11:16 For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is also holy: and if the rootbe holy, so are the branches.
11:17 And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being awild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakestof the root and fatness of the olive tree; 
11:18 Boast not against thebranches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the rootthee.
11:19 Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I mightbe graffed in.
11:20 Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thoustandest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear: 
11:21 For if Godspared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare notthee.
11:22 Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them whichfell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in hisgoodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
11:23 And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall begraffed in: for God is able to graff them in again.
11:24 For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild bynature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree:how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, be graffedinto their own olive tree?  
11:25 For I would not, brethren, that yeshould be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your ownconceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until thefulness of the Gentiles be come in.
11:26 And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shallcome out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness fromJacob: 
11:27 For this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take awaytheir sins.
11:28 As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: butas touching the election, they are beloved for the father's sakes.
11:29 For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.
11:30 For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have nowobtained mercy through their unbelief: 
11:31 Even so have these alsonow not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.
11:32 For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might havemercy upon all.
11:33 O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge ofGod!  how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past findingout!  
11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath beenhis counsellor?  
11:35 Or who hath first given to him, and it shall berecompensed unto him again?  
11:36 For of him, and through him, and tohim, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
12:1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that yepresent your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God,which is your reasonable service.
12:2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by therenewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, andacceptable, and perfect, will of God.
12:3 For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that isamong you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think;but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man themeasure of faith.
12:4 For as we have many members in one body, and all members have notthe same office: 
12:5 So we, being many, are one body in Christ, andevery one members one of another.
12:6 Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is givento us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportionof faith; 
12:7 Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he thatteacheth, on teaching; 
12:8 Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: hethat giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, withdiligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.
12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil;cleave to that which is good.
12:10 Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; inhonour preferring one another; 
12:11 Not slothful in business; ferventin spirit; serving the Lord; 
12:12 Rejoicing in hope; patient intribulation; continuing instant in prayer; 
12:13 Distributing to thenecessity of saints; given to hospitality.
12:14 Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.
12:15 Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
12:16 Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things,but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.
12:17 Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in thesight of all men.
12:18 If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably withall men.
12:19 Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give placeunto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saiththe Lord.
12:20 Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, givehim drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.
12:21 Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.
13:1 Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is nopower but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.
13:2 Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinanceof God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation.
13:3 For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wiltthou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thoushalt have praise of the same: 
13:4 For he is the minister of God tothee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for hebeareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, arevenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil.
13:5 Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but alsofor conscience sake.
13:6 For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God'sministers, attending continually upon this very thing.
13:7 Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute isdue; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.
13:8 Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that lovethanother hath fulfilled the law.
13:9 For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill,Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shaltnot covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is brieflycomprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour asthyself.
13:10 Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love is thefulfilling of the law.
13:11 And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awakeout of sleep: for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
13:12 The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us thereforecast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light.
13:13 Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting anddrunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife andenvying.
13:14 But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision forthe flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof.
14:1 Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtfuldisputations.
14:2 For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who isweak, eateth herbs.
14:3 Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let nothim which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him.
14:4 Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his ownmaster he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God isable to make him stand.
14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth everyday alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
14:6 He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and hethat regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He thateateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he thateateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.
14:7 For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.
14:8 For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die,we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are theLord's.
14:9 For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that hemight be Lord both of the dead and living.
14:10 But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set atnought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat ofChrist.
14:11 For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shallbow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
14:12 So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.
14:13 Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge thisrather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in hisbrother's way.
14:14 I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there isnothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to beunclean, to him it is unclean.
14:15 But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thounot charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.
14:16 Let not then your good be evil spoken of: 
14:17 For the kingdomof God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy inthe Holy Ghost.
14:18 For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God,and approved of men.
14:19 Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace,and things wherewith one may edify another.
14:20 For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed arepure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.
14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.
14:22 Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he thatcondemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth.
14:23 And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth notof faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.
15:1 We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of theweak, and not to please ourselves.
15:2 Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good toedification.
15:3 For even Christ pleased not himself; but, as it is written, Thereproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.
15:4 For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for ourlearning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures mighthave hope.
15:5 Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to belikeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus: 
15:6 That yemay with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of ourLord Jesus Christ.
15:7 Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us tothe glory of God.
15:8 Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcisionfor the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
15:9 And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it iswritten, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, andsing unto thy name.
15:10 And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.
15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, allye people.
15:12 And again, Esaias saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and hethat shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentilestrust.
15:13 Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace inbelieving, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the HolyGhost.
15:14 And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye alsoare full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonishone another.
15:15 Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto youin some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that isgiven to me of God, 
15:16 That I should be the minister of JesusChrist to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that theoffering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified bythe Holy Ghost.
15:17 I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ inthose things which pertain to God.
15:18 For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christhath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word anddeed, 
15:19 Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of theSpirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum,I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.
15:20 Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christwas named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation: 
15:21 But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see:and they that have not heard shall understand.
15:22 For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming toyou.
15:23 But now having no more place in these parts, and having a greatdesire these many years to come unto you; 
15:24 Whensoever I take myjourney into Spain, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in myjourney, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I besomewhat filled with your company.
15:25 But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints.
15:26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make acertain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem.
15:27 It hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For ifthe Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, theirduty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.
15:28 When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to themthis fruit, I will come by you into Spain.
15:29 And I am sure that, when I come unto you, I shall come in thefulness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.
15:30 Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake,and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me inyour prayers to God for me; 
15:31 That I may be delivered from themthat do not believe in Judaea; and that my service which I have forJerusalem may be accepted of the saints; 
15:32 That I may come untoyou with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
16:1 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of thechurch which is at Cenchrea: 
16:2 That ye receive her in the Lord, asbecometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business shehath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myselfalso.
16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus: 
16:4 Whohave for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I givethanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
16:5 Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Salute mywell-beloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ.
16:6 Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.
16:7 Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow-prisoners,who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
16:9 Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
16:10 Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are ofAristobulus' household.
16:11 Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the householdof Narcissus, which are in the Lord.
16:12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute thebeloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord.
16:13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
16:14 Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and thebrethren which are with them.
16:15 Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, andOlympas, and all the saints which are with them.
16:16 Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christsalute you.
16:17 Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions andoffences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoidthem.
16:18 For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, buttheir own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive thehearts of the simple.
16:19 For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am gladtherefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto thatwhich is good, and simple concerning evil.
16:20 And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
16:21 Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater,my kinsmen, salute you.
16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord.
16:23 Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. Erastusthe chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
16:25 Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to mygospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelationof the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began, 
16:26 Butnow is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, accordingto the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nationsfor the obedience of faith: 
16:27 To God only wise, be glory throughJesus Christ for ever. Amen.