1:1 Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, accordingto the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth whichis after godliness; 
1:2 In hope of eternal life, which God, thatcannot lie, promised before the world began; 
1:3 But hath in due timesmanifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto meaccording to the commandment of God our Saviour; 
1:4 To Titus, mineown son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God theFather and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.
1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set inorder the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, asI had appointed thee: 
1:6 If any be blameless, the husband of onewife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.
1:7 For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; notselfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not givento filthy lucre; 
1:8 But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men,sober, just, holy, temperate; 
1:9 Holding fast the faithful word as hehath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhortand to convince the gainsayers.
1:10 For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers,specially they of the circumcision: 
1:11 Whose mouths must be stopped,who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, forfilthy lucre's sake.
1:12 One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, TheCretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.
1:13 This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that theymay be sound in the faith; 
1:14 Not giving heed to Jewish fables, andcommandments of men, that turn from the truth.
1:15 Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiledand unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience isdefiled.
1:16 They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him,being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.
2:1 But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: 
2:2 Thatthe aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity,in patience.
2:3 The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becomethholiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of goodthings; 
2:4 That they may teach the young women to be sober, to lovetheir husbands, to love their children, 
2:5 To be discreet, chaste,keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the wordof God be not blasphemed.
2:6 Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.
2:7 In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrineshewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 
2:8 Sound speech, thatcannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may beashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.
2:9 Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and toplease them well in all things; not answering again; 
2:10 Notpurloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn thedoctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
2:11 For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to allmen, 
2:12 Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, weshould live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
2:13 Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of thegreat God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 
2:14 Who gave himself for us,that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself apeculiar people, zealous of good works.
2:15 These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority.Let no man despise thee.
3:1 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, toobey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, 
3:2 To speak evil ofno man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto allmen.
3:3 For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient,deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice andenvy, hateful, and hating one another.
3:4 But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward manappeared, 
3:5 Not by works of righteousness which we have done, butaccording to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration,and renewing of the Holy Ghost; 
3:6 Which he shed on us abundantlythrough Jesus Christ our Saviour; 
3:7 That being justified by hisgrace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
3:8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thouaffirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might becareful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitableunto men.
3:9 But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, andstrivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
3:10 A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonitionreject; 
3:11 Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth,being condemned of himself.
3:12 When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent tocome unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.
3:13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently,that nothing be wanting unto them.
3:14 And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessaryuses, that they be not unfruitful.
3:15 All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in thefaith. Grace be with you all. Amen.