1:1 And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, andthe LORD his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.
1:2 Then Solomon spake unto all Israel, to the captains of thousandsand of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every governor in allIsrael, the chief of the fathers.
1:3 So Solomon, and all the congregation with him, went to the highplace that was at Gibeon; for there was the tabernacle of thecongregation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made inthe wilderness.
1:4 But the ark of God had David brought up from Kirjathjearim to theplace which David had prepared for it: for he had pitched a tent forit at Jerusalem.
1:5 Moreover the brasen altar, that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the sonof Hur, had made, he put before the tabernacle of the LORD: andSolomon and the congregation sought unto it.
1:6 And Solomon went up thither to the brasen altar before the LORD,which was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered athousand burnt offerings upon it.
1:7 In that night did God appear unto Solomon, and said unto him, Askwhat I shall give thee.
1:8 And Solomon said unto God, Thou hast shewed great mercy unto Davidmy father, and hast made me to reign in his stead.
1:9 Now, O LORD God, let thy promise unto David my father beestablished: for thou hast made me king over a people like the dust ofthe earth in multitude.
1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come inbefore this people: for who can judge this thy people, that is sogreat?  
1:11 And God said to Solomon, Because this was in thine heart,and thou hast not asked riches, wealth, or honour, nor the life ofthine enemies, neither yet hast asked long life; but hast asked wisdomand knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge my people, over whomI have made thee king: 
1:12 Wisdom and knowledge is granted unto thee;and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honour, such as none ofthe kings have had that have been before thee, neither shall there anyafter thee have the like.
1:13 Then Solomon came from his journey to the high place that was atGibeon to Jerusalem, from before the tabernacle of the congregation,and reigned over Israel.
1:14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousandand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, which heplaced in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
1:15 And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous asstones, and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in thevale for abundance.
1:16 And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: theking's merchants received the linen yarn at a price.
1:17 And they fetched up, and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot forsix hundred shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty:and so brought they out horses for all the kings of the Hittites, andfor the kings of Syria, by their means.
2:1 And Solomon determined to build an house for the name of the LORD,and an house for his kingdom.
2:2 And Solomon told out threescore and ten thousand men to bearburdens, and fourscore thousand to hew in the mountain, and threethousand and six hundred to oversee them.
2:3 And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As thou didstdeal with David my father, and didst send him cedars to build him anhouse to dwell therein, even so deal with me.
2:4 Behold, I build an house to the name of the LORD my God, todedicate it to him, and to burn before him sweet incense, and for thecontinual shewbread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening,on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts of theLORD our God. This is an ordinance for ever to Israel.
2:5 And the house which I build is great: for great is our God aboveall gods.
2:6 But who is able to build him an house, seeing the heaven andheaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I shouldbuild him an house, save only to burn sacrifice before him?  
2:7 Sendme now therefore a man cunning to work in gold, and in silver, and inbrass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and that canskill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and inJerusalem, whom David my father did provide.
2:8 Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out ofLebanon: for I know that thy servants can skill to cut timber inLebanon; and, behold, my servants shall be with thy servants, 
2:9 Evento prepare me timber in abundance: for the house which I am about tobuild shall be wonderful great.
2:10 And, behold, I will give to thy servants, the hewers that cuttimber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousandmeasures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twentythousand baths of oil.
2:11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent toSolomon, Because the LORD hath loved his people, he hath made theeking over them.
2:12 Huram said moreover, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, that madeheaven and earth, who hath given to David the king a wise son, enduedwith prudence and understanding, that might build an house for theLORD, and an house for his kingdom.
2:13 And now I have sent a cunning man, endued with understanding, ofHuram my father's, 
2:14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan,and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to work in gold, and insilver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, inblue, and in fine linen, and in crimson; also to grave any manner ofgraving, and to find out every device which shall be put to him, withthy cunning men, and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father.
2:15 Now therefore the wheat, and the barley, the oil, and the wine,which my lord hath spoken of, let him send unto his servants: 
2:16 Andwe will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as thou shalt need: and wewill bring it to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carryit up to Jerusalem.
2:17 And Solomon numbered all the strangers that were in the land ofIsrael, after the numbering wherewith David his father had numberedthem; and they were found an hundred and fifty thousand and threethousand and six hundred.
2:18 And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to be bearers ofburdens, and fourscore thousand to be hewers in the mountain, andthree thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people a work.
3:1 Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD at Jerusalem inmount Moriah, where the Lord appeared unto David his father, in theplace that David had prepared in the threshingfloor of Ornan theJebusite.
3:2 And he began to build in the second day of the second month, inthe fourth year of his reign.
3:3 Now these are the things wherein Solomon was instructed for thebuilding of the house of God. The length by cubits after the firstmeasure was threescore cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
3:4 And the porch that was in the front of the house, the length of itwas according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and theheight was an hundred and twenty: and he overlaid it within with puregold.
3:5 And the greater house he cieled with fir tree, which he overlaidwith fine gold, and set thereon palm trees and chains.
3:6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: andthe gold was gold of Parvaim.
3:7 He overlaid also the house, the beams, the posts, and the wallsthereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved cherubims on thewalls.
3:8 And he made the most holy house, the length whereof was accordingto the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the breadth thereoftwenty cubits: and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to sixhundred talents.
3:9 And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And heoverlaid the upper chambers with gold.
3:10 And in the most holy house he made two cherubims of image work,and overlaid them with gold.
3:11 And the wings of the cherubims were twenty cubits long: one wingof the one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house:and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reaching to the wing ofthe other cherub.
3:12 And one wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to thewall of the house: and the other wing was five cubits also, joining tothe wing of the other cherub.
3:13 The wings of these cherubims spread themselves forth twentycubits: and they stood on their feet, and their faces were inward.
3:14 And he made the vail of blue, and purple, and crimson, and finelinen, and wrought cherubims thereon.
3:15 Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty and fivecubits high, and the chapiter that was on the top of each of them wasfive cubits.
3:16 And he made chains, as in the oracle, and put them on the headsof the pillars; and made an hundred pomegranates, and put them on thechains.
3:17 And he reared up the pillars before the temple, one on the righthand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on theright hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.
4:1 Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the lengththereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits theheight thereof.
4:2 Also he made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, roundin compass, and five cubits the height thereof; and a line of thirtycubits did compass it round about.
4:3 And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass itround about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two rowsof oxen were cast, when it was cast.
4:4 It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, andthree looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, andthree looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,and all their hinder parts were inward.
4:5 And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of itlike the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and itreceived and held three thousand baths.
4:6 He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and fiveon the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for theburnt offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests towash in.
4:7 And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, andset them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.
4:8 He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five onthe right side, and five on the left. And he made an hundred basons ofgold.
4:9 Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court,and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.
4:10 And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, overagainst the south.
4:11 And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basons. AndHuram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for thehouse of God; 
4:12 To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and thechapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the twowreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on thetop of the pillars; 
4:13 And four hundred pomegranates on the twowreaths; two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the twopommels of the chapiters which were upon the pillars.
4:14 He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases; 
4:15 Onesea, and twelve oxen under it.
4:16 The pots also, and the shovels, and the fleshhooks, and all theirinstruments, did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the houseof the LORD of bright brass.
4:17 In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay groundbetween Succoth and Zeredathah.
4:18 Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for theweight of the brass could not be found out.
4:19 And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God,the golden altar also, and the tables whereon the shewbread was set;
4:20 Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that they should burnafter the manner before the oracle, of pure gold; 
4:21 And theflowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and thatperfect gold; 
4:22 And the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons,and the censers, of pure gold: and the entry of the house, the innerdoors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house ofthe temple, were of gold.
5:1 Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD wasfinished: and Solomon brought in all the things that David his fatherhad dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments,put he among the treasures of the house of God.
5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads ofthe tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, untoJerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of thecity of David, which is Zion.
5:3 Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the kingin the feast which was in the seventh month.
5:4 And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up theark.
5:5 And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of thecongregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle,these did the priests and the Levites bring up.
5:6 Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that wereassembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, whichcould not be told nor numbered for multitude.
5:7 And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORDunto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy place,even under the wings of the cherubims: 
5:8 For the cherubims spreadforth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims coveredthe ark and the staves thereof above.
5:9 And they drew out the staves of the ark, that the ends of thestaves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were notseen without. And there it is unto this day.
5:10 There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses puttherein at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children ofIsrael, when they came out of Egypt.
5:11 And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holyplace: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, and didnot then wait by course: 
5:12 Also the Levites which were the singers,all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and theirbrethren, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteriesand harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them anhundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:) 
5:13 It came evento pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one soundto be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they lifted uptheir voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick,and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endurethfor ever: that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the houseof the LORD; 
5:14 So that the priests could not stand to minister byreason of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house ofGod.
6:1 Then said Solomon, The LORD hath said that he would dwell in thethick darkness.
6:2 But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place forthy dwelling for ever.
6:3 And the king turned his face, and blessed the whole congregationof Israel: and all the congregation of Israel stood.
6:4 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who hath with hishands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David,saying, 
6:5 Since the day that I brought forth my people out of theland of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to buildan house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man tobe a ruler over my people Israel: 
6:6 But I have chosen Jerusalem,that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over mypeople Israel.
6:7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house forthe name of the LORD God of Israel.
6:8 But the LORD said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thineheart to build an house for my name, thou didst well in that it was inthine heart: 
6:9 Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; butthy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build thehouse for my name.
6:10 The LORD therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken:for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and am set on thethrone of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house forthe name of the LORD God of Israel.
6:11 And in it have I put the ark, wherein is the covenant of theLORD, that he made with the children of Israel.
6:12 And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of allthe congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands: 
6:13 ForSolomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long, and fivecubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst ofthe court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his kneesbefore all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his handstoward heaven.
6:14 And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee in theheaven, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercyunto thy servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts: 
6:15 Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thouhast promised him; and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled itwith thine hand, as it is this day.
6:16 Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant Davidmy father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall notfail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; yet sothat thy children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as thouhast walked before me.
6:17 Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let thy word be verified, whichthou hast spoken unto thy servant David.
6:18 But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold,heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much lessthis house which I have built!  
6:19 Have respect therefore to theprayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, tohearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy servant prayeth beforethee: 
6:20 That thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night,upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy namethere; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth towardthis place.
6:21 Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, and ofthy people Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thoufrom thy dwelling place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest,forgive.
6:22 If a man sin against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon himto make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house;
6:23 Then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, byrequiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head; andby justifying the righteous, by giving him according to hisrighteousness.
6:24 And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before the enemy,because they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confessthy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;
6:25 Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sin of thypeople Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest tothem and to their fathers.
6:26 When the heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because theyhave sinned against thee; yet if they pray toward this place, andconfess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflictthem; 
6:27 Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thyservants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them thegood way, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, whichthou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance.
6:28 If there be dearth in the land, if there be pestilence, if therebe blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemiesbesiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore orwhatsoever sickness there be: 
6:29 Then what prayer or whatsupplication soever shall be made of any man, or of all thy peopleIsrael, when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief, andshall spread forth his hands in this house: 
6:30 Then hear thou fromheaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every manaccording unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou onlyknowest the hearts of the children of men:) 
6:31 That they may fearthee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thougavest unto our fathers.
6:32 Moreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy peopleIsrael, but is come from a far country for thy great name's sake, andthy mighty hand, and thy stretched out arm; if they come and pray inthis house; 
6:33 Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thydwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth tothee for; that all people of the earth may know thy name, and fearthee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which Ihave built is called by thy name.
6:34 If thy people go out to war against their enemies by the way thatthou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city whichthou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name; 
6:35 Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,and maintain their cause.
6:36 If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which sinnethnot,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before theirenemies, and they carry them away captives unto a land far off ornear; 
6:37 Yet if they bethink themselves in the land whither they arecarried captive, and turn and pray unto thee in the land of theircaptivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, and have dealtwickedly; 
6:38 If they return to thee with all their heart and withall their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they havecarried them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavestunto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, andtoward the house which I have built for thy name: 
6:39 Then hear thoufrom the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and theirsupplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people whichhave sinned against thee.
6:40 Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and letthine ears be attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.
6:41 Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place, thou,and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothedwith salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.
6:42 O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: rememberthe mercies of David thy servant.
7:1 Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came downfrom heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; andthe glory of the LORD filled the house.
7:2 And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD,because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD's house.
7:3 And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down,and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves withtheir faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, andpraised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth forever.
7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before theLORD.
7:5 And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousandoxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and allthe people dedicated the house of God.
7:6 And the priests waited on their offices: the Levites also withinstruments of musick of the LORD, which David the king had made topraise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when Davidpraised by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets beforethem, and all Israel stood.
7:7 Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was beforethe house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and thefat of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon hadmade was not able to receive the burnt offerings, and the meatofferings, and the fat.
7:8 Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and allIsrael with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in ofHamath unto the river of Egypt.
7:9 And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they keptthe dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.
7:10 And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sentthe people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for thegoodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and toIsrael his people.
7:11 Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD, and the king'shouse: and all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house ofthe LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.
7:12 And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, Ihave heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for anhouse of sacrifice.
7:13 If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command thelocusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;
7:14 If my people, which are called by my name, shall humblethemselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wickedways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, andwill heal their land.
7:15 Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent unto the prayerthat is made in this place.
7:16 For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name maybe there for ever: and mine eyes and mine heart shall be thereperpetually.
7:17 And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy fatherwalked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shaltobserve my statutes and my judgments; 
7:18 Then will I stablish thethrone of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thyfather, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.
7:19 But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments,which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, andworship them; 
7:20 Then will I pluck them up by the roots out of myland which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctifiedfor my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be aproverb and a byword among all nations.
7:21 And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to everyone that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath the LORD donethus unto this land, and unto this house?  
7:22 And it shall beanswered, Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, whichbrought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on othergods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he broughtall this evil upon them.
8:1 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomonhad built the house of the LORD, and his own house, 
8:2 That thecities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, andcaused the children of Israel to dwell there.
8:3 And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed against it.
8:4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities,which he built in Hamath.
8:5 Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron the nether,fenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars; 
8:6 And Baalath, and allthe store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and thecities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build inJerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of hisdominion.
8:7 As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and theAmorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites,which were not of Israel, 
8:8 But of their children, who were leftafter them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, themdid Solomon make to pay tribute until this day.
8:9 But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for hiswork; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, andcaptains of his chariots and horsemen.
8:10 And these were the chief of king Solomon's officers, even twohundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.
8:11 And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city ofDavid unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wifeshall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because theplaces are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.
8:12 Then Solomon offered burnt offerings unto the LORD on the altarof the LORD, which he had built before the porch, 
8:13 Even after acertain rate every day, offering according to the commandment ofMoses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemnfeasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavenedbread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.
8:14 And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, thecourses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to theircharges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty ofevery day required: the porters also by their courses at every gate:for so had David the man of God commanded.
8:15 And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto thepriests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning thetreasures.
8:16 Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of thefoundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So thehouse of the LORD was perfected.
8:17 Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the sea side inthe land of Edom.
8:18 And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, andservants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with theservants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fiftytalents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.
9:1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she cameto prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very greatcompany, and camels that bare spices, and gold in abundance, andprecious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed withhim of all that was in her heart.
9:2 And Solomon told her all her questions: and there was nothing hidfrom Solomon which he told her not.
9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, andthe house that he had built, 
9:4 And the meat of his table, and thesitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, andtheir apparel; his cupbearers also, and their apparel; and his ascentby which he went up into the house of the LORD; there was no morespirit in her.
9:5 And she said to the king, It was a true report which I heard inmine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom: 
9:6 Howbeit I believednot their words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold,the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me: for thouexceedest the fame that I heard.
9:7 Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants, which standcontinually before thee, and hear thy wisdom.
9:8 Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee to set theeon his throne, to be king for the LORD thy God: because thy God lovedIsrael, to establish them for ever, therefore made he thee king overthem, to do judgment and justice.
9:9 And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, andof spices great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there anysuch spice as the queen of Sheba gave king Solomon.
9:10 And the servants also of Huram, and the servants of Solomon,which brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and preciousstones.
9:11 And the king made of the algum trees terraces to the house of theLORD, and to the king's palace, and harps and psalteries for singers:and there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.
9:12 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire,whatsoever she asked, beside that which she had brought unto the king.So she turned, and went away to her own land, she and her servants.
9:13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was sixhundred and threescore and six talents of gold; 
9:14 Beside that whichchapmen and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia andgovernors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.
9:15 And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: sixhundred shekels of beaten gold went to one target.
9:16 And three hundred shields made he of beaten gold: three hundredshekels of gold went to one shield. And the king put them in the houseof the forest of Lebanon.
9:17 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid itwith pure gold.
9:18 And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold,which were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of thesitting place, and two lions standing by the stays: 
9:19 And twelvelions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps.There was not the like made in any kingdom.
9:20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, andall the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of puregold: none were of silver; it was not any thing accounted of in thedays of Solomon.
9:21 For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram:every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold, andsilver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.
9:22 And king Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in riches andwisdom.
9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, tohear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.
9:24 And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, andvessels of gold, and raiment, harness, and spices, horses, and mules,a rate year by year.
9:25 And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, andtwelve thousand horsemen; whom he bestowed in the chariot cities, andwith the king at Jerusalem.
9:26 And he reigned over all the kings from the river even unto theland of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.
9:27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar treesmade he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plains in abundance.
9:28 And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt, and out of alllands.
9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they notwritten in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy ofAhijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer againstJeroboam the son of Nebat?  
9:30 And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem overall Israel forty years.
9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the cityof David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.
10:1 And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for to Shechem were all Israel cometo make him king.
10:2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was inEgypt, whither he fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heardit, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.
10:3 And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came andspake to Rehoboam, saying, 
10:4 Thy father made our yoke grievous: nowtherefore ease thou somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father, andhis heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve thee.
10:5 And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. Andthe people departed.
10:6 And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stoodbefore Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counselgive ye me to return answer to this people?  
10:7 And they spake untohim, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, andspeak good words to them, they will be thy servants for ever.
10:8 But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him, and tookcounsel with the young men that were brought up with him, that stoodbefore him.
10:9 And he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may returnanswer to this people, which have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhatthe yoke that thy father did put upon us?  
10:10 And the young menthat were brought up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thouanswer the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made ouryoke heavy, but make thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thousay unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father'sloins.
10:11 For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put moreto your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastiseyou with scorpions.
10:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the thirdday, as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day.
10:13 And the king answered them roughly; and king Rehoboam forsookthe counsel of the old men, 
10:14 And answered them after the adviceof the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I willadd thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastiseyou with scorpions.
10:15 So the king hearkened not unto the people: for the cause was ofGod, that the LORD might perform his word, which he spake by the handof Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
10:16 And when all Israel saw that the king would not hearken untothem, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we inDavid?  and we have none inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man toyour tents, O Israel: and now, David, see to thine own house. So allIsrael went to their tents.
10:17 But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities ofJudah, Rehoboam reigned over them.
10:18 Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram that was over the tribute; andthe children of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. But kingRehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee toJerusalem.
10:19 And Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.
11:1 And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the houseof Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring thekingdom again to Rehoboam.
11:2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
11:3 Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to allIsrael in Judah and Benjamin, saying, 
11:4 Thus saith the LORD, Yeshall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man tohis house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words ofthe LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.
11:5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence inJudah.
11:6 He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa, 
11:7 And Bethzur,and Shoco, and Adullam, 
11:8 And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph, 
11:9 And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah, 
11:10 And Zorah, and Aijalon,and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.
11:11 And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, andstore of victual, and of oil and wine.
11:12 And in every several city he put shields and spears, and madethem exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.
11:13 And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resortedto him out of all their coasts.
11:14 For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, andcame to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast themoff from executing the priest's office unto the LORD: 
11:15 And heordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and forthe calves which he had made.
11:16 And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set theirhearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrificeunto the LORD God of their fathers.
11:17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam theson of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in theway of David and Solomon.
11:18 And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the sonof David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;
11:19 Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.
11:20 And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; whichbare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
11:21 And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all hiswives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescoreconcubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescoredaughters.)  
11:22 And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah thechief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make himking.
11:23 And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his childrenthroughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fencedcity: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired manywives.
12:1 And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom,and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the LORD, and allIsrael with him.
12:2 And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king RehoboamShishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they hadtransgressed against the LORD, 
12:3 With twelve hundred chariots, andthreescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without number thatcame with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and theEthiopians.
12:4 And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and cameto Jerusalem.
12:5 Then came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes ofJudah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak,and said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, andtherefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.
12:6 Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves;and they said, The LORD is righteous.
12:7 And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word ofthe LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves;therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant them somedeliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem bythe hand of Shishak.
12:8 Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may know myservice, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.
12:9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took awaythe treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of theking's house; he took all: he carried away also the shields of goldwhich Solomon had made.
12:10 Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass, andcommitted them to the hands of the chief of the guard, that kept theentrance of the king's house.
12:11 And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guardcame and fetched them, and brought them again into the guard chamber.
12:12 And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned fromhim, that he would not destroy him altogether: and also in Judahthings went well.
12:13 So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned:for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign, andhe reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD hadchosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And hismother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess.
12:14 And he did evil, because he prepared not his heart to seek theLORD.
12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not writtenin the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerninggenealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboamcontinually.
12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the cityof David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.
13:1 Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reignover Judah.
13:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also wasMichaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war betweenAbijah and Jeroboam.
13:3 And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men ofwar, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set thebattle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men,being mighty men of valour.
13:4 And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mountEphraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel; 
13:5 Oughtye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom overIsrael to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant ofsalt?  
13:6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon theson of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.
13:7 And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial,and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon,when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstandthem.
13:8 And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the handof the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are withyour golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.
13:9 Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of thenations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himselfwith a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of themthat are no gods.
13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsakenhim; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons ofAaron, and the Levites wait upon their business: 
13:11 And they burnunto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices andsweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the puretable; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burnevery evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye haveforsaken him.
13:12 And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and hispriests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children ofIsrael, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for yeshall not prosper.
13:13 But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: sothey were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.
13:14 And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before andbehind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with thetrumpets.
13:15 Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judahshouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israelbefore Abijah and Judah.
13:16 And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God deliveredthem into their hand.
13:17 And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: sothere fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.
13:18 Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, andthe children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD Godof their fathers.
13:19 And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him,Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,and Ephraim with the towns thereof.
13:20 Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days ofAbijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.
13:21 But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begattwenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.
13:22 And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and hissayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.
14:1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the cityof David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the landwas quiet ten years.
14:2 And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORDhis God: 
14:3 For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and thehigh places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves: 
14:4 And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to dothe law and the commandment.
14:5 Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high placesand the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.
14:6 And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, andhe had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.
14:7 Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and makeabout them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yetbefore us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have soughthim, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built andprospered.
14:8 And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out ofJudah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shieldsand drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these weremighty men of valour.
14:9 And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an hostof a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came untoMareshah.
14:10 Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in arrayin the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.
14:11 And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it isnothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that haveno power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thyname we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let noman prevail against thee.
14:12 So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;and the Ethiopians fled.
14:13 And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them untoGerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recoverthemselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before hishost; and they carried away very much spoil.
14:14 And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear ofthe LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for therewas exceeding much spoil in them.
14:15 They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep andcamels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.
15:1 And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded: 
15:2 Andhe went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and allJudah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and ifye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he willforsake you.
15:3 Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, andwithout a teaching priest, and without law.
15:4 But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God ofIsrael, and sought him, he was found of them.
15:5 And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, norto him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitantsof the countries.
15:6 And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God didvex them with all adversity.
15:7 Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for yourwork shall be rewarded.
15:8 And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded theprophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of allthe land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he hadtaken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that wasbefore the porch of the LORD.
15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers withthem out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell tohim out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his Godwas with him.
15:10 So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the thirdmonth, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.
15:11 And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil whichthey had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.
15:12 And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of theirfathers with all their heart and with all their soul; 
15:13 Thatwhosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put todeath, whether small or great, whether man or woman.
15:14 And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and withshouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.
15:15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with alltheir heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was foundof them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.
15:16 And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, heremoved her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brookKidron.
15:17 But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.
15:18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his fatherhad dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,and vessels.
15:19 And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year ofthe reign of Asa.
16:1 In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king ofIsrael came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that hemight let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
16:2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of thehouse of the LORD and of the king's house, and sent to Benhadad kingof Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying, 
16:3 There is a leaguebetween me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father:behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league withBaasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.
16:4 And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains ofhis armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.
16:5 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left offbuilding of Ramah, and let his work cease.
16:6 Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away thestones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha wasbuilding; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
16:7 And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, andsaid unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and notrelied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syriaescaped out of thine hand.
16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with verymany chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,he delivered them into thine hand.
16:9 For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the wholeearth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart isperfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore fromhenceforth thou shalt have wars.
16:10 Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressedsome of the people the same time.
16:11 And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they arewritten in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
16:12 And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseasedin his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his diseasehe sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.
16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortiethyear of his reign.
16:14 And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made forhimself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filledwith sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by theapothecaries' art: and they made a very great burning for him.
17:1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthenedhimself against Israel.
17:2 And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and setgarrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, whichAsa his father had taken.
17:3 And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the firstways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim; 
17:4 But soughtto the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and notafter the doings of Israel.
17:5 Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and allJudah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour inabundance.
17:6 And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover hetook away the high places and groves out of Judah.
17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, evento Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and toMichaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.
17:8 And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, andZebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama andJehoram, priests.
17:9 And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORDwith them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, andtaught the people.
17:10 And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the landsthat were round about Judah, so that they made no war againstJehoshaphat.
17:11 Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, andtribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousandand seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.
17:12 And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judahcastles, and cities of store.
17:13 And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men ofwar, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.
17:14 And these are the numbers of them according to the house oftheir fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.
17:15 And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him twohundred and fourscore thousand.
17:16 And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willinglyoffered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousandmighty men of valour.
17:17 And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with himarmed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.
17:18 And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred andfourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.
17:19 These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in thefenced cities throughout all Judah.
18:1 Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joinedaffinity with Ahab.
18:2 And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahabkilled sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that hehad with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramothgilead.
18:3 And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wiltthou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he answered him, I am as thouart, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.
18:4 And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I praythee, at the word of the LORD to day.
18:5 Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets fourhundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramothgilead tobattle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliverit into the king's hand.
18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORDbesides, that we might enquire of him?  
18:7 And the king of Israelsaid unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire ofthe LORD: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, butalways evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphatsaid, Let not the king say so.
18:8 And the king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said,Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.
18:9 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat eitherof them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in a voidplace at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophetsprophesied before them.
18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron,and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria untilthey be consumed.
18:11 And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up toRamothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the handof the king.
18:12 And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him,saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the kingwith one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one oftheir's, and speak thou good.
18:13 And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith,that will I speak.
18:14 And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him,Micaiah, shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear?And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered intoyour hand.
18:15 And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure theethat thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?
18:16 Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains,as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have nomaster; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.
18:17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell theethat he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?  
18:18 Again hesaid, Therefore hear the word of the LORD; I saw the LORD sitting uponhis throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand andon his left.
18:19 And the LORD said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that hemay go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spake saying after thismanner, and another saying after that manner.
18:20 Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, andsaid, I will entice him. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?  
18:21 And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of allhis prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou shaltalso prevail: go out, and do even so.
18:22 Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in themouth of these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil againstthee.
18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiahupon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD fromme to speak unto thee?  
18:24 And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt seeon that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
18:25 Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry himback to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;
18:26 And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, andfeed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, untilI return in peace.
18:27 And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hathnot the LORD spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.
18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went upto Ramothgilead.
18:29 And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguisemyself, and I will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So theking of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.
18:30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariotsthat were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, saveonly with the king of Israel.
18:31 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots sawJehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore theycompassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORDhelped him; and God moved them to depart from him.
18:32 For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariotsperceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back againfrom pursuing him.
18:33 And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king ofIsrael between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to hischariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of thehost; for I am wounded.
18:34 And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israelstayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even:and about the time of the sun going down he died.
19:1 And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peaceto Jerusalem.
19:2 And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, andsaid to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and lovethem that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before theLORD.
19:3 Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thouhast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thineheart to seek God.
19:4 And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again throughthe people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them back untothe LORD God of their fathers.
19:5 And he set judges in the land throughout all the fenced cities ofJudah, city by city, 
19:6 And said to the judges, Take heed what yedo: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is with you in thejudgment.
19:7 Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed anddo it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect ofpersons, nor taking of gifts.
19:8 Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and ofthe priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel, for thejudgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned toJerusalem.
19:9 And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of theLORD, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.
19:10 And what cause soever shall come to you of your brethren thatdwell in your cities, between blood and blood, between law andcommandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that theytrespass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and uponyour brethren: this do, and ye shall not trespass.
19:11 And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all mattersof the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the houseof Judah, for all the king's matters: also the Levites shall beofficers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with thegood.
20:1 It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, andthe children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, cameagainst Jehoshaphat to battle.
20:2 Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometha great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria;and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.
20:3 And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, andproclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
20:4 And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD:even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.
20:5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem,in the house of the LORD, before the new court, 
20:6 And said, O LORDGod of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thouover all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there notpower and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?  
20:7 Art notthou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land beforethy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend forever?  
20:8 And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuarytherein for thy name, saying, 
20:9 If, when evil cometh upon us, asthe sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before thishouse, and in thy presence, (for thy name is in this house,) and cryunto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help.
20:10 And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir,whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of theland of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed them not;
20:11 Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thypossession, which thou hast given us to inherit.
20:12 O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no mightagainst this great company that cometh against us; neither know wewhat to do: but our eyes are upon thee.
20:13 And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones,their wives, and their children.
20:14 Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, theson of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph,came the Spirit of the LORD in the midst of the congregation; 
20:15 And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem,and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the LORD unto you, Be not afraidnor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is notyours, but God's.
20:16 To morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by thecliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, beforethe wilderness of Jeruel.
20:17 Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, standye still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah andJerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go out against them:for the LORD will be with you.
20:18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: andall Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD,worshipping the LORD.
20:19 And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of thechildren of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israelwith a loud voice on high.
20:20 And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into thewilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood andsaid, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe inthe LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets,so shall ye prosper.
20:21 And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singersunto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness, as theywent out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercyendureth for ever.
20:22 And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD setambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, whichwere come against Judah; and they were smitten.
20:23 For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against theinhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and whenthey had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped todestroy another.
20:24 And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness,they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodiesfallen to the earth, and none escaped.
20:25 And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoilof them, they found among them in abundance both riches with the deadbodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves,more than they could carry away: and they were three days in gatheringof the spoil, it was so much.
20:26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley ofBerachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of thesame place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.
20:27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, andJehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem withjoy; for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies.
20:28 And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps andtrumpets unto the house of the LORD.
20:29 And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries,when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies ofIsrael.
20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him restround about.
20:31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five yearsold when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years inJerusalem.And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
20:32 And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed notfrom it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD.
20:33 Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet thepeople had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.
20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold,they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who ismentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.
20:35 And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself withAhaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly: 
20:36 And he joinedhimself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made theships in Eziongaber.
20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied againstJehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah,the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that theywere not able to go to Tarshish.
21:1 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with hisfathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in hisstead.
21:2 And he had brethren the sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehiel,and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all thesewere the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.
21:3 And their father gave them great gifts of silver, and of gold,and of precious things, with fenced cities in Judah: but the kingdomgave he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn.
21:4 Now when Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, hestrengthened himself, and slew all his brethren with the sword, anddivers also of the princes of Israel.
21:5 Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, andhe reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
21:6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did thehouse of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he wroughtthat which was evil in the eyes of the LORD.
21:7 Howbeit the LORD would not destroy the house of David, because ofthe covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give alight to him and to his sons for ever.
21:8 In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion ofJudah, and made themselves a king.
21:9 Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chariotswith him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites whichcompassed him in, and the captains of the chariots.
21:10 So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah unto thisday.The same time also did Libnah revolt from under his hand; because hehad forsaken the LORD God of his fathers.
21:11 Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah andcaused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, andcompelled Judah thereto.
21:12 And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying,Thus saith the LORD God of David thy father, Because thou hast notwalked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asaking of Judah, 
21:13 But hast walked in the way of the kings ofIsrael, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go awhoring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hastslain thy brethren of thy father's house, which were better thanthyself: 
21:14 Behold, with a great plague will the LORD smite thypeople, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods: 
21:15 Andthou shalt have great sickness by disease of thy bowels, until thybowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.
21:16 Moreover the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of thePhilistines, and of the Arabians, that were near the Ethiopians: 
21:17 And they came up into Judah, and brake into it, and carried away allthe substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also,and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz,the youngest of his sons.
21:18 And after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with anincurable disease.
21:19 And it came to pass, that in process of time, after the end oftwo years, his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness: so he diedof sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like theburning of his fathers.
21:20 Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and hereigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired.Howbeit they buried him in the city of David, but not in thesepulchres of the kings.
22:1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest sonking in his stead: for the band of men that came with the Arabians tothe camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram kingof Judah reigned.
22:2 Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, andhe reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Athaliahthe daughter of Omri.
22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab: for his motherwas his counsellor to do wickedly.
22:4 Wherefore he did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house ofAhab: for they were his counsellors after the death of his father tohis destruction.
22:5 He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the sonof Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria atRamothgilead: and the Syrians smote Joram.
22:6 And he returned to be healed in Jezreel because of the woundswhich were given him at Ramah, when he fought with Hazael king ofSyria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to seeJehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.
22:7 And the destruction of Ahaziah was of God by coming to Joram: forwhen he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son ofNimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.
22:8 And it came to pass, that, when Jehu was executing judgment uponthe house of Ahab, and found the princes of Judah, and the sons of thebrethren of Ahaziah, that ministered to Ahaziah, he slew them.
22:9 And he sought Ahaziah: and they caught him, (for he was hid inSamaria,) and brought him to Jehu: and when they had slain him, theyburied him: Because, said they, he is the son of Jehoshaphat, whosought the LORD with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah had nopower to keep still the kingdom.
22:10 But when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son wasdead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house ofJudah.
22:11 But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the sonof Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain,and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, thedaughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, (for shewas the sister of Ahaziah,) hid him from Athaliah, so that she slewhim not.
22:12 And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: andAthaliah reigned over the land.
23:1 And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and tookthe captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael theson of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son ofAdaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.
23:2 And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of allthe cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and theycame to Jerusalem.
23:3 And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in thehouse of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king's son shallreign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.
23:4 This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you enteringon the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters ofthe doors; 
23:5 And a third part shall be at the king's house; and athird part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall bein the courts of the house of the LORD.
23:6 But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they areholy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.
23:7 And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every manwith his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into thehouse, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when hecometh in, and when he goeth out.
23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things thatJehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men thatwere to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on thesabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.
23:9 Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains ofhundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been kingDavid's, which were in the house of God.
23:10 And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in hishand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of thetemple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.
23:11 Then they brought out the king's son, and put upon him thecrown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada andhis sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.
23:12 Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running andpraising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:
23:13 And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at theentering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all thepeople of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also thesingers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise.Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.
23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundredsthat were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of theranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. Forthe priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.
23:15 So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the enteringof the horse gate by the king's house, they slew her there.
23:16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all thepeople, and between the king, that they should be the LORD's people.
23:17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake itdown, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattanthe priest of Baal before the altars.
23:18 Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD bythe hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in thehouse of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it iswritten in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as itwas ordained by David.
23:19 And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD,that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.
23:20 And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and thegovernors of the people, and all the people of the land, and broughtdown the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through thehigh gate into the king's house, and set the king upon the throne ofthe kingdom.
23:21 And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet,after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.
24:1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reignedforty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Zibiah ofBeersheba.
24:2 And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD allthe days of Jehoiada the priest.
24:3 And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons anddaughters.
24:4 And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repairthe house of the LORD.
24:5 And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said tothem, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel moneyto repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that yehasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.
24:6 And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him,Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah andout of Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Mosesthe servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for thetabernacle of witness?  
24:7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wickedwoman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicatedthings of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.
24:8 And at the king's commandment they made a chest, and set itwithout at the gate of the house of the LORD.
24:9 And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, tobring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laidupon Israel in the wilderness.
24:10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in,and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.
24:11 Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was broughtunto the king's office by the hand of the Levites, and when they sawthat there was much money, the king's scribe and the high priest'sofficer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to hisplace again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money inabundance.
24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of theservice of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters torepair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brassto mend the house of the LORD.
24:13 So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, andthey set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it.
24:14 And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of themoney before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for thehouse of the LORD, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, andspoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burntofferings in the house of the LORD continually all the days ofJehoiada.
24:15 But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; anhundred and thirty years old was he when he died.
24:16 And they buried him in the city of David among the kings,because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward hishouse.
24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, andmade obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.
24:18 And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers, andserved groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem forthis their trespass.
24:19 Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD;and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.
24:20 And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiadathe priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thussaith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, that yecannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath alsoforsaken you.
24:21 And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones atthe commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD.
24:22 Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiadahis father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, hesaid, The LORD look upon it, and require it.
24:23 And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host ofSyria came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, anddestroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, andsent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.
24:24 For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men,and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because theyhad forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgmentagainst Joash.
24:25 And when they were departed from him, (for they left him ingreat diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the bloodof the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and hedied: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried himnot in the sepulchres of the kings.
24:26 And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son ofShimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.
24:27 Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laidupon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they arewritten in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his sonreigned in his stead.
25:1 Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, andhe reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's namewas Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
25:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but notwith a perfect heart.
25:3 Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him,that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.
25:4 But he slew not their children, but did as it is written in thelaw in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, Thefathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children diefor the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.
25:5 Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and made them captainsover thousands, and captains over hundreds, according to the houses oftheir fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered themfrom twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousandchoice men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear andshield.
25:6 He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out ofIsrael for an hundred talents of silver.
25:7 But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not thearmy of Israel go with thee; for the LORD is not with Israel, to wit,with all the children of Ephraim.
25:8 But if thou wilt go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shallmake thee fall before the enemy: for God hath power to help, and tocast down.
25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for thehundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the manof God answered, The LORD is able to give thee much more than this.
25:10 Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come tohim out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger wasgreatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.
25:11 And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, andwent to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir tenthousand.
25:12 And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judahcarry away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, andcast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken inpieces.
25:13 But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that theyshould not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, fromSamaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, andtook much spoil.
25:14 Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from theslaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children ofSeir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself beforethem, and burned incense unto them.
25:15 Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah, andhe sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou soughtafter the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own peopleout of thine hand?  
25:16 And it came to pass, as he talked with him,that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king's counsel?forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, andsaid, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thouhast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.
25:17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, theson of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let ussee one another in the face.
25:18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying,The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon,saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by awild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.
25:19 Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heartlifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddleto thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah withthee?  
25:20 But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that hemight deliver them into the hand of their enemies, because they soughtafter the gods of Edom.
25:21 So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another inthe face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, whichbelongeth to Judah.
25:22 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fledevery man to his tent.
25:23 And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the sonof Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him toJerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate ofEphraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
25:24 And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vesselsthat were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the treasuresof the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.
25:25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the deathof Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
25:26 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, arethey not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?  
25:27 Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from following the LORDthey made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled toLachish: but they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.
25:28 And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with hisfathers in the city of Judah.
26:1 Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen yearsold, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.
26:2 He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the kingslept with his fathers.
26:3 Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign, and hereigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also wasJecoliah of Jerusalem.
26:4 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his father Amaziah did.
26:5 And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understandingin the visions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made himto prosper.
26:6 And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brakedown the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod,and built cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
26:7 And God helped him against the Philistines, and against theArabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.
26:8 And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spreadabroad even to the entering in of Egypt; for he strengthened himselfexceedingly.
26:9 Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, andat the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortifiedthem.
26:10 Also he built towers in the desert, and digged many wells: forhe had much cattle, both in the low country, and in the plains:husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel:for he loved husbandry.
26:11 Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out towar by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand ofJeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah,one of the king's captains.
26:12 The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty menof valour were two thousand and six hundred.
26:13 And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand andseven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, tohelp the king against the enemy.
26:14 And Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields,and spears, and helmets, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to caststones.
26:15 And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to beon the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stoneswithal.And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, tillhe was strong.
26:16 But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to hisdestruction: for he transgressed against the LORD his God, and wentinto the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense.
26:17 And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscorepriests of the LORD, that were valiant men: 
26:18 And they withstoodUzziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee,Uzziah, to burn incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons ofAaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary;for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honour fromthe LORD God.
26:19 Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to burnincense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy evenrose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD,from beside the incense altar.
26:20 And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked uponhim, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust himout from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because the LORDhad smitten him.
26:21 And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, anddwelt in a several house, being a leper; for he was cut off from thehouse of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the king's house,judging the people of the land.
26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiahthe prophet, the son of Amoz, write.
26:23 So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with hisfathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings; forthey said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.
27:1 Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, andhe reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also wasJerushah, the daughter of Zadok.
27:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,according to all that his father Uzziah did: howbeit he entered notinto the temple of the LORD. And the people did yet corruptly.
27:3 He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wallof Ophel he built much.
27:4 Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in theforests he built castles and towers.
27:5 He fought also with the king of the Ammonites, and prevailedagainst them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year anhundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and tenthousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon pay unto him,both the second year, and the third.
27:6 So Jotham became mighty, because he prepared his ways before theLORD his God.
27:7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and hisways, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel andJudah.
27:8 He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, andreigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.
27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in thecity of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.
28:1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reignedsixteen years in Jerusalem: but he did not that which was right in thesight of the LORD, like David his father: 
28:2 For he walked in theways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for Baalim.
28:3 Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, andburnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the heathenwhom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.
28:4 He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and onthe hills, and under every green tree.
28:5 Wherefore the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of theking of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a great multitudeof them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was alsodelivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with agreat slaughter.
28:6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah an hundred and twentythousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they hadforsaken the LORD God of their fathers.
28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king'sson, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was nextto the king.
28:8 And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethrentwo hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also awaymuch spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.
28:9 But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded: and hewent out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them,Behold, because the LORD God of your fathers was wroth with Judah, hehath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slain them in a ragethat reacheth up unto heaven.
28:10 And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah andJerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not withyou, even with you, sins against the LORD your God?  
28:11 Now hear metherefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye have taken captiveof your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.
28:12 Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariahthe son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiahthe son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against themthat came from the war, 
28:13 And said unto them, Ye shall not bringin the captives hither: for whereas we have offended against the LORDalready, ye intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass: forour trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.
28:14 So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before theprinces and all the congregation.
28:15 And the men which were expressed by name rose up, and took thecaptives, and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them,and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink,and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon asses, andbrought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brethren:then they returned to Samaria.
28:16 At that time did king Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria tohelp him.
28:17 For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carriedaway captives.
28:18 The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the low country,and of the south of Judah, and had taken Bethshemesh, and Ajalon, andGederoth, and Shocho with the villages thereof, and Timnah with thevillages thereof, Gimzo also and the villages thereof: and they dweltthere.
28:19 For the LORD brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel;for he made Judah naked, and transgressed sore against the LORD.
28:20 And Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria came unto him, anddistressed him, but strengthened him not.
28:21 For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of the LORD, andout of the house of the king, and of the princes, and gave it unto theking of Assyria: but he helped him not.
28:22 And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more againstthe LORD: this is that king Ahaz.
28:23 For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him:and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them,therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But theywere the ruin of him, and of all Israel.
28:24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, andcut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doorsof the house of the LORD, and he made him altars in every corner ofJerusalem.
28:25 And in every several city of Judah he made high places to burnincense unto other gods, and provoked to anger the LORD God of hisfathers.
28:26 Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, first and last,behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in thecity, even in Jerusalem: but they brought him not into the sepulchresof the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.
29:1 Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old,and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother'sname was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
29:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,according to all that David his father had done.
29:3 He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened thedoors of the house of the LORD, and repaired them.
29:4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered themtogether into the east street, 
29:5 And said unto them, Hear me, yeLevites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORDGod of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holyplace.
29:6 For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil inthe eyes of the LORD our God, and have forsaken him, and have turnedaway their faces from the habitation of the LORD, and turned theirbacks.
29:7 Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out thelamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in theholy place unto the God of Israel.
29:8 Wherefore the wrath of the LORD was upon Judah and Jerusalem, andhe hath delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, asye see with your eyes.
29:9 For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons andour daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.
29:10 Now it is in mine heart to make a covenant with the LORD God ofIsrael, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.
29:11 My sons, be not now negligent: for the LORD hath chosen you tostand before him, to serve him, and that ye should minister unto him,and burn incense.
29:12 Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel theson of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites: and of the sons ofMerari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and ofthe Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah:
29:13 And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sonsof Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah: 
29:14 And of the sons of Heman;Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.
29:15 And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, andcame, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of theLORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.
29:16 And the priests went into the inner part of the house of theLORD, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that theyfound in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of theLORD. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad into the brookKidron.
29:17 Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify,and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the LORD:so they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days; and in thesixteenth day of the first month they made an end.
29:18 Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We havecleansed all the house of the LORD, and the altar of burnt offering,with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all thevessels thereof.
29:19 Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did castaway in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and,behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.
29:20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers ofthe city, and went up to the house of the LORD.
29:21 And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and sevenlambs, and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and forthe sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons ofAaron to offer them on the altar of the LORD.
29:22 So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood,and sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed therams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also thelambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.
29:23 And they brought forth the he goats for the sin offering beforethe king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them:
29:24 And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation withtheir blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: forthe king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering shouldbe made for all Israel.
29:25 And he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals,with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment ofDavid, and of Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet: for so wasthe commandment of the LORD by his prophets.
29:26 And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and thepriests with the trumpets.
29:27 And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon thealtar.And when the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began alsowith the trumpets, and with the instruments ordained by David king ofIsrael.
29:28 And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, andthe trumpeters sounded: and all this continued until the burntoffering was finished.
29:29 And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all thatwere present with him bowed themselves, and worshipped.
29:30 Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levitesto sing praise unto the LORD with the words of David, and of Asaph theseer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their headsand worshipped.
29:31 Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecratedyourselves unto the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thankofferings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought insacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heartburnt offerings.
29:32 And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregationbrought, was threescore and ten bullocks, an hundred rams, and twohundred lambs: all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.
29:33 And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and threethousand sheep.
29:34 But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay allthe burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did helpthem, till the work was ended, and until the other priests hadsanctified themselves: for the Levites were more upright in heart tosanctify themselves than the priests.
29:35 And also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat ofthe peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt offering.So the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.
29:36 And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, that God had preparedthe people: for the thing was done suddenly.
30:1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters alsoto Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of theLORD at Jerusalem, to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel.
30:2 For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all thecongregation in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second month.
30:3 For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests hadnot sanctified themselves sufficiently, neither had the peoplegathered themselves together to Jerusalem.
30:4 And the thing pleased the king and all the congregation.
30:5 So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout allIsrael, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep thepassover unto the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem: for they had notdone it of a long time in such sort as it was written.
30:6 So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princesthroughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment ofthe king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again unto the LORD Godof Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will return to the remnant ofyou, that are escaped out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.
30:7 And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, whichtrespassed against the LORD God of their fathers, who therefore gavethem up to desolation, as ye see.
30:8 Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were, but yieldyourselves unto the LORD, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hathsanctified for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fiercenessof his wrath may turn away from you.
30:9 For if ye turn again unto the LORD, your brethren and yourchildren shall find compassion before them that lead them captive, sothat they shall come again into this land: for the LORD your God isgracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if yereturn unto him.
30:10 So the posts passed from city to city through the country ofEphraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them toscorn, and mocked them.
30:11 Nevertheless divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbledthemselves, and came to Jerusalem.
30:12 Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heart to dothe commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of theLORD.
30:13 And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feastof unleavened bread in the second month, a very great congregation.
30:14 And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem,and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into thebrook Kidron.
30:15 Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of thesecond month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, andsanctified themselves, and brought in the burnt offerings into thehouse of the LORD.
30:16 And they stood in their place after their manner, according tothe law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood,which they received of the hand of the Levites.
30:17 For there were many in the congregation that were notsanctified: therefore the Levites had the charge of the killing of thepassovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them unto theLORD.
30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, andManasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet didthey eat the passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiahprayed for them, saying, The good LORD pardon every one 
30:19 Thatprepareth his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, thoughhe be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.
30:20 And the LORD hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.
30:21 And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem keptthe feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness: and theLevites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loudinstruments unto the LORD.
30:22 And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that taughtthe good knowledge of the LORD: and they did eat throughout the feastseven days, offering peace offerings, and making confession to theLORD God of their fathers.
30:23 And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days:and they kept other seven days with gladness.
30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the congregation athousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave tothe congregation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and agreat number of priests sanctified themselves.
30:25 And all the congregation of Judah, with the priests and theLevites, and all the congregation that came out of Israel, and thestrangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt inJudah, rejoiced.
30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem: for since the time ofSolomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like inJerusalem.
30:27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: andtheir voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy dwellingplace, even unto heaven.
31:1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present wentout to the cities of Judah, and brake the images in pieces, and cutdown the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out ofall Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they hadutterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned,every man to his possession, into their own cities.
31:2 And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levitesafter their courses, every man according to his service, the priestsand Levites for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister,and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of theLORD.
31:3 He appointed also the king's portion of his substance for theburnt offerings, to wit, for the morning and evening burnt offerings,and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, andfor the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the LORD.
31:4 Moreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to givethe portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might beencouraged in the law of the LORD.
31:5 And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children ofIsrael brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil,and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of allthings brought they in abundantly.
31:6 And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt inthe cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep,and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the LORDtheir God, and laid them by heaps.
31:7 In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps,and finished them in the seventh month.
31:8 And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, theyblessed the LORD, and his people Israel.
31:9 Then Hezekiah questioned with the priests and the Levitesconcerning the heaps.
31:10 And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him,and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the houseof the LORD, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty: for theLORD hath blessed his people; and that which is left is this greatstore.
31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of theLORD; and they prepared them, 
31:12 And brought in the offerings andthe tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: over which Cononiahthe Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was the next.
31:13 And Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth,and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, wereoverseers under the hand of Cononiah and Shimei his brother, at thecommandment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the houseof God.
31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter toward theeast, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute theoblations of the LORD, and the most holy things.
31:15 And next him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah,Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their setoffice, to give to their brethren by courses, as well to the great asto the small: 
31:16 Beside their genealogy of males, from three yearsold and upward, even unto every one that entereth into the house ofthe LORD, his daily portion for their service in their chargesaccording to their courses; 
31:17 Both to the genealogy of the priestsby the house of their fathers, and the Levites from twenty years oldand upward, in their charges by their courses; 
31:18 And to thegenealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, andtheir daughters, through all the congregation: for in their set officethey sanctified themselves in holiness: 
31:19 Also of the sons ofAaron the priests, which were in the fields of the suburbs of theircities, in every several city, the men that were expressed by name, togive portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that werereckoned by genealogies among the Levites.
31:20 And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and wrought thatwhich was good and right and truth before the LORD his God.
31:21 And in every work that he began in the service of the house ofGod, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he didit with all his heart, and prospered.
32:1 After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacheribking of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against thefenced cities, and thought to win them for himself.
32:2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he waspurposed to fight against Jerusalem, 
32:3 He took counsel with hisprinces and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains whichwere without the city: and they did help him.
32:4 So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all thefountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land,saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?
32:5 Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that wasbroken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, andrepaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields inabundance.
32:6 And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered themtogether to him in the street of the gate of the city, and spakecomfortably to them, saying, 
32:7 Be strong and courageous, be notafraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitudethat is with him: for there be more with us than with him: 
32:8 Withhim is an arm of flesh; but with us is the LORD our God to help us,and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon thewords of Hezekiah king of Judah.
32:9 After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants toJerusalem, (but he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all hispower with him,) unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah thatwere at Jerusalem, saying, 
32:10 Thus saith Sennacherib king ofAssyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abide in the siege in Jerusalem?
32:11 Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die byfamine and by thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliver us out ofthe hand of the king of Assyria?  
32:12 Hath not the same Hezekiahtaken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah andJerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and burn incenseupon it?  
32:13 Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto allthe people of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those landsany ways able to deliver their lands out of mine hand?  
32:14 Who wasthere among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterlydestroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that yourGod should be able to deliver you out of mine hand?  
32:15 Nowtherefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on thismanner, neither yet believe him: for no god of any nation or kingdomwas able to deliver his people out of mine hand, and out of the handof my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of minehand?  
32:16 And his servants spake yet more against the LORD God, andagainst his servant Hezekiah.
32:17 He wrote also letters to rail on the LORD God of Israel, and tospeak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other landshave not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the Godof Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand.
32:18 Then they cried with a loud voice in the Jews' speech unto thepeople of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and totrouble them; that they might take the city.
32:19 And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the godsof the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man.
32:20 And for this cause Hezekiah the king, and the prophet Isaiah theson of Amoz, prayed and cried to heaven.
32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men ofvalour, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king ofAssyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And whenhe was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his ownbowels slew him there with the sword.
32:22 Thus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalemfrom the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand ofall other, and guided them on every side.
32:23 And many brought gifts unto the LORD to Jerusalem, and presentsto Hezekiah king of Judah: so that he was magnified in the sight ofall nations from thenceforth.
32:24 In those days Hezekiah was sick to the death, and prayed untothe LORD: and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign.
32:25 But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit doneunto him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath uponhim, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.
32:26 Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of hisheart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath ofthe LORD came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah.
32:27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour: and he madehimself treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones,and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of pleasantjewels; 
32:28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn, and wine, andoil; and stalls for all manner of beasts, and cotes for flocks.
32:29 Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks andherds in abundance: for God had given him substance very much.
32:30 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon,and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David.And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.
32:31 Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of the princes ofBabylon, who sent unto him to enquire of the wonder that was done inthe land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was inhis heart.
32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold,they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz,and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in thechiefest of the sepulchres of the sons of David: and all Judah and theinhabitants of Jerusalem did him honour at his death. And Manasseh hisson reigned in his stead.
33:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and hereigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem: 
33:2 But did that which wasevil in the sight of the LORD, like unto the abominations of theheathen, whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.
33:3 For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father hadbroken down, and he reared up altars for Baalim, and made groves, andworshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.
33:4 Also he built altars in the house of the LORD, whereof the LORDhad said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.
33:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courtsof the house of the LORD.
33:6 And he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valleyof the son of Hinnom: also he observed times, and used enchantments,and used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit, and withwizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke himto anger.
33:7 And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in thehouse of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son,In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all thetribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever: 
33:8 Neither will I anymore remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I haveappointed for your fathers; so that they will take heed to do all thatI have commanded them, according to the whole law and the statutes andthe ordinances by the hand of Moses.
33:9 So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err,and to do worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed beforethe children of Israel.
33:10 And the LORD spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but theywould not hearken.
33:11 Wherefore the LORD brought upon them the captains of the host ofthe king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and boundhim with fetters, and carried him to Babylon.
33:12 And when he was in affliction, he besought the LORD his God, andhumbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, 
33:13 Andprayed unto him: and he was intreated of him, and heard hissupplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom.Then Manasseh knew that the LORD he was God.
33:14 Now after this he built a wall without the city of David, on thewest side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entering in at the fishgate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very great height,and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah.
33:15 And he took away the strange gods, and the idol out of the houseof the LORD, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of thehouse of the LORD, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.
33:16 And he repaired the altar of the LORD, and sacrificed thereonpeace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve theLORD God of Israel.
33:17 Nevertheless the people did sacrifice still in the high places,yet unto the LORD their God only.
33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto hisGod, and the words of the seers that spake to him in the name of theLORD God of Israel, behold, they are written in the book of the kingsof Israel.
33:19 His prayer also, and how God was intreated of him, and all hissins, and his trespass, and the places wherein he built high places,and set up groves and graven images, before he was humbled: behold,they are written among the sayings of the seers.
33:20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in hisown house: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.
33:21 Amon was two and twenty years old when he began to reign, andreigned two years in Jerusalem.
33:22 But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as didManasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed unto all the carved imageswhich Manasseh his father had made, and served them; 
33:23 And humblednot himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbledhimself; but Amon trespassed more and more.
33:24 And his servants conspired against him, and slew him in his ownhouse.
33:25 But the people of the land slew all them that had conspiredagainst king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son kingin his stead.
34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reignedin Jerusalem one and thirty years.
34:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, andwalked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to theright hand, nor to the left.
34:3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, hebegan to seek after the God of David his father: and in the twelfthyear he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, andthe groves, and the carved images, and the molten images.
34:4 And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; and theimages, that were on high above them, he cut down; and the groves, andthe carved images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and madedust of them, and strowed it upon the graves of them that hadsacrificed unto them.
34:5 And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, andcleansed Judah and Jerusalem.
34:6 And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon,even unto Naphtali, with their mattocks round about.
34:7 And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and hadbeaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idolsthroughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.
34:8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged theland, and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiahthe governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, torepair the house of the LORD his God.
34:9 And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered themoney that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites thatkept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, andof all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and theyreturned to Jerusalem.
34:10 And they put it in the hand of the workmen that had theoversight of the house of the LORD, and they gave it to the workmenthat wrought in the house of the LORD, to repair and amend the house:
34:11 Even to the artificers and builders gave they it, to buy hewnstone, and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which thekings of Judah had destroyed.
34:12 And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of themwere Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; andZechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set itforward; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instrumentsof musick.
34:13 Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseersof all that wrought the work in any manner of service: and of theLevites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.
34:14 And when they brought out the money that was brought into thehouse of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of theLORD given by Moses.
34:15 And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I havefound the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiahdelivered the book to Shaphan.
34:16 And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the kingword back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, theydo it.
34:17 And they have gathered together the money that was found in thehouse of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hand of theoverseers, and to the hand of the workmen.
34:18 Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah thepriest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.
34:19 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of thelaw, that he rent his clothes.
34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan,and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah aservant of the king's, saying, 
34:21 Go, enquire of the LORD for me,and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning thewords of the book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORDthat is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the wordof the LORD, to do after all that is written in this book.
34:22 And Hilkiah, and they that the king had appointed, went toHuldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath, the sonof Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in thecollege:) and they spake to her to that effect.
34:23 And she answered them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tellye the man that sent you to me, 
34:24 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, Iwill bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof,even all the curses that are written in the book which they have readbefore the king of Judah: 
34:25 Because they have forsaken me, andhave burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me toanger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall bepoured out upon this place, and shall not be quenched.
34:26 And as for the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of theLORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israelconcerning the words which thou hast heard; 
34:27 Because thine heartwas tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God, when thouheardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitantsthereof, and humbledst thyself before me, and didst rend thy clothes,and weep before me; I have even heard thee also, saith the LORD.
34:28 Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt begathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all theevil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants ofthe same. So they brought the king word again.
34:29 Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judahand Jerusalem.
34:30 And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the menof Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and theLevites, and all the people, great and small: and he read in theirears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in thehouse of the LORD.
34:31 And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before theLORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments, and histestimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all hissoul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in thisbook.
34:32 And he caused all that were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin tostand to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to thecovenant of God, the God of their fathers.
34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all thecountries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all thatwere present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God. Andall his days they departed not from following the LORD, the God oftheir fathers.
35:1 Moreover Josiah kept a passover unto the LORD in Jerusalem: andthey killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.
35:2 And he set the priests in their charges, and encouraged them tothe service of the house of the LORD, 
35:3 And said unto the Levitesthat taught all Israel, which were holy unto the LORD, Put the holyark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel didbuild; it shall not be a burden upon your shoulders: serve now theLORD your God, and his people Israel, 
35:4 And prepare yourselves bythe houses of your fathers, after your courses, according to thewriting of David king of Israel, and according to the writing ofSolomon his son.
35:5 And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of thefamilies of the fathers of your brethren the people, and after thedivision of the families of the Levites.
35:6 So kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare yourbrethren, that they may do according to the word of the LORD by thehand of Moses.
35:7 And Josiah gave to the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, allfor the passover offerings, for all that were present, to the numberof thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of theking's substance.
35:8 And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to the priests,and to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of thehouse of God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings twothousand and six hundred small cattle and three hundred oxen.
35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethaneel, his brethren, andHashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave unto theLevites for passover offerings five thousand small cattle, and fivehundred oxen.
35:10 So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in theirplace, and the Levites in their courses, according to the king'scommandment.
35:11 And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled theblood from their hands, and the Levites flayed them.
35:12 And they removed the burnt offerings, that they might giveaccording to the divisions of the families of the people, to offerunto the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did theywith the oxen.
35:13 And they roasted the passover with fire according to theordinance: but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and incaldrons, and in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.
35:14 And afterward they made ready for themselves, and for thepriests: because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offeringof burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levitesprepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.
35:15 And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, accordingto the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun theking's seer; and the porters waited at every gate; they might notdepart from their service; for their brethren the Levites prepared forthem.
35:16 So all the service of the LORD was prepared the same day, tokeep the passover, and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of theLORD, according to the commandment of king Josiah.
35:17 And the children of Israel that were present kept the passoverat that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.
35:18 And there was no passover like to that kept in Israel from thedays of Samuel the prophet; neither did all the kings of Israel keepsuch a passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, andall Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants ofJerusalem.
35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passoverkept.
35:20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho kingof Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by Euphrates: and Josiahwent out against him.
35:21 But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do withthee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, butagainst the house wherewith I have war: for God commanded me to makehaste: forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that hedestroy thee not.
35:22 Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, butdisguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearkened notunto the words of Necho from the mouth of God, and came to fight inthe valley of Megiddo.
35:23 And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to hisservants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.
35:24 His servants therefore took him out of that chariot, and put himin the second chariot that he had; and they brought him to Jerusalem,and he died, and was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers.And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.
35:25 And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men andthe singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations to this day,and made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written inthe lamentations.
35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodness, accordingto that which was written in the law of the LORD, 
35:27 And his deeds,first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings ofIsrael and Judah.
36:1 Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, andmade him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem.
36:2 Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign,and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
36:3 And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem, and condemnedthe land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
36:4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judahand Jerusalem, and turned his name to Jehoiakim. And Necho tookJehoahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.
36:5 Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign,and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which wasevil in the sight of the LORD his God.
36:6 Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound himin fetters, to carry him to Babylon.
36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of theLORD to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.
36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations whichhe did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written inthe book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his sonreigned in his stead.
36:9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and hereigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that whichwas evil in the sight of the LORD.
36:10 And when the year was expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent, andbrought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of theLORD, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.
36:11 Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign,and reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.
36:12 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God,and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from themouth of the LORD.
36:13 And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had madehim swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heartfrom turning unto the LORD God of Israel.
36:14 Moreover all the chief of the priests, and the people,transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen; andpolluted the house of the LORD which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.
36:15 And the LORD God of their fathers sent to them by hismessengers, rising up betimes, and sending; because he had compassionon his people, and on his dwelling place: 
36:16 But they mocked themessengers of God, and despised his words, and misused his prophets,until the wrath of the LORD arose against his people, till there wasno remedy.
36:17 Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, whoslew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary,and had no compassion upon young man or maiden, old man, or him thatstooped for age: he gave them all into his hand.
36:18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, andthe treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king,and of his princes; all these he brought to Babylon.
36:19 And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall ofJerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyedall the goodly vessels thereof.
36:20 And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away toBabylon; where they were servants to him and his sons until the reignof the kingdom of Persia: 
36:21 To fulfil the word of the LORD by themouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths: for aslong as she lay desolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore andten years.
36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word ofthe LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, theLORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made aproclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing,saying, 
36:23 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of theearth hath the LORD God of heaven given me; and he hath charged me tobuild him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there amongyou of all his people?  The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.