1:1 In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah cameNebuchadnezzar king of Babylon unto Jerusalem, and besieged it.
1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with partof the vessels of the house of God: which he carried into the land ofShinar to the house of his god; and he brought the vessels into thetreasure house of his god.
1:3 And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, thathe should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king'sseed, and of the princes; 
1:4 Children in whom was no blemish, butwell favoured, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge,and understanding science, and such as had ability in them to stand inthe king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and thetongue of the Chaldeans.
1:5 And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat,and of the wine which he drank: so nourishing them three years, thatat the end thereof they might stand before the king.
1:6 Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah,Mishael, and Azariah: 
1:7 Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gavenames: for he gave unto Daniel the name of Belteshazzar; and toHananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, ofAbednego.
1:8 But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himselfwith the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank:therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might notdefile himself.
1:9 Now God had brought Daniel into favour and tender love with theprince of the eunuchs.
1:10 And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel, I fear my lordthe king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink: for why shouldhe see your faces worse liking than the children which are of yoursort? then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king.
1:11 Then said Daniel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs hadset over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, 
1:12 Prove thyservants, I beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat,and water to drink.
1:13 Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and thecountenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king'smeat: and as thou seest, deal with thy servants.
1:14 So he consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.
1:15 And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer andfatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of theking's meat.
1:16 Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the winethat they should drink; and gave them pulse.
1:17 As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill inall learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visionsand dreams.
1:18 Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bringthem in, then the prince of the eunuchs brought them in beforeNebuchadnezzar.
1:19 And the king communed with them; and among them all was foundnone like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: therefore stood theybefore the king.
1:20 And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, that the kingenquired of them, he found them ten times better than all themagicians and astrologers that were in all his realm.
1:21 And Daniel continued even unto the first year of king Cyrus.
2:1 And in the second year of the reign of NebuchadnezzarNebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was troubled, andhis sleep brake from him.
2:2 Then the king commanded to call the magicians, and theastrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans, for to shew theking his dreams. So they came and stood before the king.
2:3 And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spiritwas troubled to know the dream.
2:4 Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Syriack, O king, live forever: tell thy servants the dream, and we will shew theinterpretation.
2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The thing is gonefrom me: if ye will not make known unto me the dream, with theinterpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces, and your housesshall be made a dunghill.
2:6 But if ye shew the dream, and the interpretation thereof, ye shallreceive of me gifts and rewards and great honour: therefore shew methe dream, and the interpretation thereof.
2:7 They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants thedream, and we will shew the interpretation of it.
2:8 The king answered and said, I know of certainty that ye would gainthe time, because ye see the thing is gone from me.
2:9 But if ye will not make known unto me the dream, there is but onedecree for you: for ye have prepared lying and corrupt words to speakbefore me, till the time be changed: therefore tell me the dream, andI shall know that ye can shew me the interpretation thereof.
2:10 The Chaldeans answered before the king, and said, There is not aman upon the earth that can shew the king's matter: therefore there isno king, lord, nor ruler, that asked such things at any magician, orastrologer, or Chaldean.
2:11 And it is a rare thing that the king requireth, and there is noneother that can shew it before the king, except the gods, whosedwelling is not with flesh.
2:12 For this cause the king was angry and very furious, and commandedto destroy all the wise men of Babylon.
2:13 And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain; andthey sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain.
2:14 Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisdom to Arioch thecaptain of the king's guard, which was gone forth to slay the wise menof Babylon: 
2:15 He answered and said to Arioch the king's captain,Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Then Arioch made the thingknown to Daniel.
2:16 Then Daniel went in, and desired of the king that he would givehim time, and that he would shew the king the interpretation.
2:17 Then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known toHananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions: 
2:18 That they woulddesire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret; thatDaniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise menof Babylon.
2:19 Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. ThenDaniel blessed the God of heaven.
2:20 Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever andever: for wisdom and might are his: 
2:21 And he changeth the times andthe seasons: he removeth kings, and setteth up kings: he giveth wisdomunto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding: 
2:22 Herevealeth the deep and secret things: he knoweth what is in thedarkness, and the light dwelleth with him.
2:23 I thank thee, and praise thee, O thou God of my fathers, who hastgiven me wisdom and might, and hast made known unto me now what wedesired of thee: for thou hast now made known unto us the king'smatter.
2:24 Therefore Daniel went in unto Arioch, whom the king had ordainedto destroy the wise men of Babylon: he went and said thus unto him;Destroy not the wise men of Babylon: bring me in before the king, andI will shew unto the king the interpretation.
2:25 Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste, and saidthus unto him, I have found a man of the captives of Judah, that willmake known unto the king the interpretation.
2:26 The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name wasBelteshazzar, Art thou able to make known unto me the dream which Ihave seen, and the interpretation thereof?  
2:27 Daniel answered inthe presence of the king, and said, The secret which the king hathdemanded cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, thesoothsayers, shew unto the king; 
2:28 But there is a God in heaventhat revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzarwhat shall be in the latter days. Thy dream, and the visions of thyhead upon thy bed, are these; 
2:29 As for thee, O king, thy thoughtscame into thy mind upon thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter:and he that revealeth secrets maketh known to thee what shall come topass.
2:30 But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdomthat I have more than any living, but for their sakes that shall makeknown the interpretation to the king, and that thou mightest know thethoughts of thy heart.
2:31 Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. This great image,whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee; and the formthereof was terrible.
2:32 This image's head was of fine gold, his breast and his arms ofsilver, his belly and his thighs of brass, 
2:33 His legs of iron, hisfeet part of iron and part of clay.
2:34 Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, whichsmote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brakethem to pieces.
2:35 Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold,broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summerthreshingfloors; and the wind carried them away, that no place wasfound for them: and the stone that smote the image became a greatmountain, and filled the whole earth.
2:36 This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereofbefore the king.
2:37 Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hathgiven thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory.
2:38 And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of thefield and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, andhath made thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold.
2:39 And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, andanother third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all theearth.
2:40 And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron: forasmuch as ironbreaketh in pieces and subdueth all things: and as iron that breakethall these, shall it break in pieces and bruise.
2:41 And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters' clay,and part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be init of the strength of the iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the ironmixed with miry clay.
2:42 And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay,so the kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken.
2:43 And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shallmingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave oneto another, even as iron is not mixed with clay.
2:44 And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up akingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not beleft to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume allthese kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.
2:45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of themountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, thebrass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath madeknown to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream iscertain, and the interpretation thereof sure.
2:46 Then the king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face, and worshippedDaniel, and commanded that they should offer an oblation and sweetodours unto him.
2:47 The king answered unto Daniel, and said, Of a truth it is, thatyour God is a God of gods, and a Lord of kings, and a revealer ofsecrets, seeing thou couldest reveal this secret.
2:48 Then the king made Daniel a great man, and gave him many greatgifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, andchief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon.
2:49 Then Daniel requested of the king, and he set Shadrach, Meshach,and Abednego, over the affairs of the province of Babylon: but Danielsat in the gate of the king.
3:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height wasthreescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up inthe plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.
3:2 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes,the governors, and the captains, the judges, the treasurers, thecounsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, tocome to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king hadset up.
3:3 Then the princes, the governors, and captains, the judges, thetreasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of theprovinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the imagethat Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before theimage that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
3:4 Then an herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people,nations, and languages, 
3:5 That at what time ye hear the sound of thecornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds ofmusick, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzarthe king hath set up: 
3:6 And whoso falleth not down and worshippethshall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.
3:7 Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of thecornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of musick, allthe people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshippedthe golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.
3:8 Wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and accusedthe Jews.
3:9 They spake and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live forever.
3:10 Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hearthe sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer,and all kinds of musick, shall fall down and worship the golden image:
3:11 And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, that he should becast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.
3:12 There are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of theprovince of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, Oking, have not regarded thee: they serve not thy gods, nor worship thegolden image which thou hast set up.
3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury commanded to bringShadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men beforethe king.
3:14 Nebuchadnezzar spake and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach,Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gods, nor worship the goldenimage which I have set up?  
3:15 Now if ye be ready that at what timeye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, anddulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the imagewhich I have made; well: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast thesame hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is thatGod that shall deliver you out of my hands?  
3:16 Shadrach, Meshach,and Abednego, answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we arenot careful to answer thee in this matter.
3:17 If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from theburning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, Oking.
3:18 But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not servethy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.
3:19 Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visagewas changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: therefore hespake, and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven timesmore than it was wont to be heated.
3:20 And he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army tobind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into theburning fiery furnace.
3:21 Then these men were bound in their coats, their hosen, and theirhats, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of theburning fiery furnace.
3:22 Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and thefurnace exceeding hot, the flames of the fire slew those men that tookup Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
3:23 And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell downbound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.
3:24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste,and spake, and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three menbound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto theking, True, O king.
3:25 He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in themidst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourthis like the Son of God.
3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fieryfurnace, and spake, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, yeservants of the most high God, come forth, and come hither. ThenShadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the fire.
3:27 And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king'scounsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodiesthe fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head singed, neitherwere their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them.
3:28 Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God ofShadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his angel, anddelivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed theking's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve norworship any god, except their own God.
3:29 Therefore I make a decree, That every people, nation, andlanguage, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach,Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shallbe made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliverafter this sort.
3:30 Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in theprovince of Babylon.
4:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all people, nations, and languages,that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.
4:2 I thought it good to shew the signs and wonders that the high Godhath wrought toward me.
4:3 How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! hiskingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generationto generation.
4:4 I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house, and flourishing in mypalace: 
4:5 I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts uponmy bed and the visions of my head troubled me.
4:6 Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylonbefore me, that they might make known unto me the interpretation ofthe dream.
4:7 Then came in the magicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, andthe soothsayers: and I told the dream before them; but they did notmake known unto me the interpretation thereof.
4:8 But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name wasBelteshazzar, according to the name of my God, and in whom is thespirit of the holy gods: and before him I told the dream, saying, 
4:9 O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that thespirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tellme the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretationthereof.
4:10 Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed; I saw, and behold atree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great.
4:11 The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reachedunto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth: 
4:12 The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in itwas meat for all: the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and thefowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fedof it.
4:13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, awatcher and an holy one came down from heaven; 
4:14 He cried aloud,and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off his branches, shake offhis leaves, and scatter his fruit: let the beasts get away from underit, and the fowls from his branches: 
4:15 Nevertheless leave the stumpof his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in thetender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven,and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth: 
4:16 Let his heart be changed from man's, and let a beast's heart be givenunto him; and let seven times pass over him.
4:17 This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand bythe word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know thatthe most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it towhomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.
4:18 This dream I king Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, OBelteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all thewise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me theinterpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods isin thee.
4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonied for onehour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spake, and said,Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation thereof,trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream be tothem that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thine enemies.
4:20 The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whoseheight reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all theearth; 
4:21 Whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and init was meat for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, andupon whose branches the fowls of the heaven had their habitation: 
4:22 It is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong: for thygreatness is grown, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy dominion to theend of the earth.
4:23 And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming downfrom heaven, and saying, Hew the tree down, and destroy it; yet leavethe stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of ironand brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet withthe dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of thefield, till seven times pass over him; 
4:24 This is theinterpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the most High, whichis come upon my lord the king: 
4:25 That they shall drive thee frommen, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and theyshall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with thedew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou knowthat the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it towhomsoever he will.
4:26 And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots;thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have knownthat the heavens do rule.
4:27 Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, andbreak off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewingmercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.
4:28 All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar.
4:29 At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of thekingdom of Babylon.
4:30 The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I havebuilt for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and forthe honour of my majesty?  
4:31 While the word was in the king'smouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar,to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from thee.
4:32 And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall bewith the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass asoxen, and seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that themost High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever hewill.
4:33 The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and hewas driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wetwith the dew of heaven, till his hairs were grown like eagles'feathers, and his nails like birds' claws.
4:34 And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyesunto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessedthe most High, and I praised and honoured him that liveth for ever,whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is fromgeneration to generation: 
4:35 And all the inhabitants of the earthare reputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the armyof heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stayhis hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?  
4:36 At the same time myreason returned unto me; and for the glory of my kingdom, mine honourand brightness returned unto me; and my counsellors and my lordssought unto me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellentmajesty was added unto me.
4:37 Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honour the King ofheaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment: and thosethat walk in pride he is able to abase.
5:1 Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords,and drank wine before the thousand.
5:2 Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring thegolden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had takenout of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and hisprinces, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.
5:3 Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of thetemple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, andhis princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.
5:4 They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, ofbrass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.
5:5 In the same hour came forth fingers of a man's hand, and wroteover against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of theking's palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.
5:6 Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubledhim, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smoteone against another.
5:7 The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans,and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men ofBabylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me theinterpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have achain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in thekingdom.
5:8 Then came in all the king's wise men: but they could not read thewriting, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.
5:9 Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance waschanged in him, and his lords were astonied.
5:10 Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lordscame into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king,live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thycountenance be changed: 
5:11 There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom isthe spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light andunderstanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found inhim; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thyfather, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, andsoothsayers; 
5:12 Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, andunderstanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences,and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the kingnamed Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew theinterpretation.
5:13 Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spakeand said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the childrenof the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out ofJewry?  
5:14 I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods isin thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom isfound in thee.
5:15 And now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought inbefore me, that they should read this writing, and make known unto methe interpretation thereof: but they could not shew the interpretationof the thing: 
5:16 And I have heard of thee, that thou canst makeinterpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read thewriting, and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shaltbe clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, andshalt be the third ruler in the kingdom.
5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let thy gifts beto thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read thewriting unto the king, and make known to him the interpretation.
5:18 O thou king, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father akingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honour: 
5:19 And for the majestythat he gave him, all people, nations, and languages, trembled andfeared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom he would he keptalive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put down.
5:20 But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride,he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory fromhim: 
5:21 And he was driven from the sons of men; and his heart wasmade like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses: theyfed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew ofheaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom ofmen, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.
5:22 And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart,though thou knewest all this; 
5:23 But hast lifted up thyself againstthe Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his housebefore thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines,have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, andgold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, norknow: and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thyways, hast thou not glorified: 
5:24 Then was the part of the hand sentfrom him; and this writing was written.
5:25 And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL,UPHARSIN.
5:26 This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numberedthy kingdom, and finished it.
5:27 TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.
5:28 PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes andPersians.
5:29 Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet,and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamationconcerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
5:30 In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.
5:31 And Darius the Median took the kingdom, being about threescoreand two years old.
6:1 It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom an hundred and twentyprinces, which should be over the whole kingdom; 
6:2 And over thesethree presidents; of whom Daniel was first: that the princes mightgive accounts unto them, and the king should have no damage.
6:3 Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes,because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to sethim over the whole realm.
6:4 Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion againstDaniel concerning the kingdom; but they could find none occasion norfault; forasmuch as he was faithful, neither was there any error orfault found in him.
6:5 Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against thisDaniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.
6:6 Then these presidents and princes assembled together to the king,and said thus unto him, King Darius, live for ever.
6:7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes,the counsellors, and the captains, have consulted together toestablish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree, that whosoevershall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee,O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.
6:8 Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that itbe not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, whichaltereth not.
6:9 Wherefore king Darius signed the writing and the decree.
6:10 Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went intohis house; and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem,he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gavethanks before his God, as he did aforetime.
6:11 Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and makingsupplication before his God.
6:12 Then they came near, and spake before the king concerning theking's decree; Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man thatshall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save ofthee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answeredand said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes andPersians, which altereth not.
6:13 Then answered they and said before the king, That Daniel, whichis of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, Oking, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petitionthree times a day.
6:14 Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeasedwith himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and helaboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him.
6:15 Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king,Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That nodecree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed.
6:16 Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast himinto the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, ThyGod whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee.
6:17 And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; andthe king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of hislords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.
6:18 Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting:neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleepwent from him.
6:19 Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in hasteunto the den of lions.
6:20 And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voiceunto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servantof the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able todeliver thee from the lions?  
6:21 Then said Daniel unto the king, Oking, live for ever.
6:22 My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, thatthey have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found inme; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt.
6:23 Then was the king exceedingly glad for him, and commanded thatthey should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up outof the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because hebelieved in his God.
6:24 And the king commanded, and they brought those men which hadaccused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, theirchildren, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, andbrake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of theden.
6:25 Then king Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages,that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.
6:26 I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men trembleand fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, andstedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed,and his dominion shall be even unto the end.
6:27 He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders inheaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of thelions.
6:28 So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reignof Cyrus the Persian.
7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dreamand visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream, andtold the sum of the matters.
7:2 Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and, behold,the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea.
7:3 And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one fromanother.
7:4 The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings: I beheld tillthe wings thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth,and made stand upon the feet as a man, and a man's heart was given toit.
7:5 And behold another beast, a second, like to a bear, and it raisedup itself on one side, and it had three ribs in the mouth of itbetween the teeth of it: and they said thus unto it, Arise, devourmuch flesh.
7:6 After this I beheld, and lo another, like a leopard, which hadupon the back of it four wings of a fowl; the beast had also fourheads; and dominion was given to it.
7:7 After this I saw in the night visions, and behold a fourth beast,dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it had great ironteeth: it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue withthe feet of it: and it was diverse from all the beasts that werebefore it; and it had ten horns.
7:8 I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among themanother little horn, before whom there were three of the first hornsplucked up by the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like theeyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things.
7:9 I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of daysdid sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his headlike the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and hiswheels as burning fire.
7:10 A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousandthousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousandstood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.
7:11 I beheld then because of the voice of the great words which thehorn spake: I beheld even till the beast was slain, and his bodydestroyed, and given to the burning flame.
7:12 As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominiontaken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.
7:13 I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of mancame with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, andthey brought him near before him.
7:14 And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, thatall people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion isan everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdomthat which shall not be destroyed.
7:15 I Daniel was grieved in my spirit in the midst of my body, andthe visions of my head troubled me.
7:16 I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him thetruth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the interpretationof the things.
7:17 These great beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shallarise out of the earth.
7:18 But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, andpossess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever.
7:19 Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast, which wasdiverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were ofiron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, andstamped the residue with his feet; 
7:20 And of the ten horns that werein his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom threefell; even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake verygreat things, whose look was more stout than his fellows.
7:21 I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, andprevailed against them; 
7:22 Until the Ancient of days came, andjudgment was given to the saints of the most High; and the time camethat the saints possessed the kingdom.
7:23 Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom uponearth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour thewhole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.
7:24 And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shallarise: and another shall rise after them; and he shall be diverse fromthe first, and he shall subdue three kings.
7:25 And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shallwear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times andlaws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times andthe dividing of time.
7:26 But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away hisdominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end.
7:27 And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdomunder the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints ofthe most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and alldominions shall serve and obey him.
7:28 Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for me Daniel, mycogitations much troubled me, and my countenance changed in me: but Ikept the matter in my heart.
8:1 In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a visionappeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which appeared untome at the first.
8:2 And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I wasat Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I sawin a vision, and I was by the river of Ulai.
8:3 Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stoodbefore the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns werehigh; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.
8:4 I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; sothat no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any thatcould deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, andbecame great.
8:5 And as I was considering, behold, an he goat came from the west onthe face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goathad a notable horn between his eyes.
8:6 And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seenstanding before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power.
8:7 And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved withcholer against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: andthere was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast himdown to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none thatcould deliver the ram out of his hand.
8:8 Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong,the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones towardthe four winds of heaven.
8:9 And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxedexceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward thepleasant land.
8:10 And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it cast downsome of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped uponthem.
8:11 Yea, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and byhim the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of the sanctuarywas cast down.
8:12 And an host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reasonof transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and itpractised, and prospered.
8:13 Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto thatcertain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning thedaily sacrifice, and the transgression of desolation, to give both thesanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?  
8:14 And he saidunto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall thesanctuary be cleansed.
8:15 And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision,and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as theappearance of a man.
8:16 And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Ulai, whichcalled, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision.
8:17 So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid,and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man:for at the time of the end shall be the vision.
8:18 Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my facetoward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright.
8:19 And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in thelast end of the indignation: for at the time appointed the end shallbe.
8:20 The ram which thou sawest having two horns are the kings of Mediaand Persia.
8:21 And the rough goat is the king of Grecia: and the great horn thatis between his eyes is the first king.
8:22 Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, fourkingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in his power.
8:23 And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressorsare come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understandingdark sentences, shall stand up.
8:24 And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power: and heshall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shalldestroy the mighty and the holy people.
8:25 And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper inhis hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and by peaceshall destroy many: he shall also stand up against the Prince ofprinces; but he shall be broken without hand.
8:26 And the vision of the evening and the morning which was told istrue: wherefore shut thou up the vision; for it shall be for manydays.
8:27 And I Daniel fainted, and was sick certain days; afterward I roseup, and did the king's business; and I was astonished at the vision,but none understood it.
9:1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed ofthe Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans; 
9:2 Inthe first year of his reign I Daniel understood by books the number ofthe years, whereof the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet,that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations ofJerusalem.
9:3 And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer andsupplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes: 
9:4 And Iprayed unto the LORD my God, and made my confession, and said, O Lord,the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to themthat love him, and to them that keep his commandments; 
9:5 We havesinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and haverebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments:
9:6 Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, whichspake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and toall the people of the land.
9:7 O LORD, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusionof faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitantsof Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are faroff, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, becauseof their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.
9:8 O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to ourprinces, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.
9:9 To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though wehave rebelled against him; 
9:10 Neither have we obeyed the voice ofthe LORD our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by hisservants the prophets.
9:11 Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing,that they might not obey thy voice; therefore the curse is poured uponus, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant ofGod, because we have sinned against him.
9:12 And he hath confirmed his words, which he spake against us, andagainst our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil:for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done uponJerusalem.
9:13 As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come uponus: yet made we not our prayer before the LORD our God, that we mightturn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.
9:14 Therefore hath the LORD watched upon the evil, and brought itupon us: for the LORD our God is righteous in all his works which hedoeth: for we obeyed not his voice.
9:15 And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth outof the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee renown,as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
9:16 O LORD, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, letthine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thyholy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of ourfathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all thatare about us.
9:17 Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and hissupplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that isdesolate, for the Lord's sake.
9:18 O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyes, andbehold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: forwe do not present our supplications before thee for ourrighteousnesses, but for thy great mercies.
9:19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; defer not,for thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are calledby thy name.
9:20 And whiles I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin andthe sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before theLORD my God for the holy mountain of my God; 
9:21 Yea, whiles I wasspeaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in thevision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me aboutthe time of the evening oblation.
9:22 And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I amnow come forth to give thee skill and understanding.
9:23 At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment came forth,and I am come to shew thee; for thou art greatly beloved: thereforeunderstand the matter, and consider the vision.
9:24 Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holycity, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and tomake reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlastingrighteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anointthe most Holy.
9:25 Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of thecommandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah thePrince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the streetshall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.
9:26 And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, butnot for himself: and the people of the prince that shall come shalldestroy the city and the sanctuary; and the end thereof shall be witha flood, and unto the end of the war desolations are determined.
9:27 And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and inthe midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation tocease, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make itdesolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall bepoured upon the desolate.
10:1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealedunto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing wastrue, but the time appointed was long: and he understood the thing,and had understanding of the vision.
10:2 In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks.
10:3 I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth,neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks werefulfilled.
10:4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was bythe side of the great river, which is Hiddekel; 
10:5 Then I lifted upmine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen,whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz: 
10:6 His body alsowas like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, andhis eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour topolished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of amultitude.
10:7 And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with mesaw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that theyfled to hide themselves.
10:8 Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and thereremained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me intocorruption, and I retained no strength.
10:9 Yet heard I the voice of his words: and when I heard the voice ofhis words, then was I in a deep sleep on my face, and my face towardthe ground.
10:10 And, behold, an hand touched me, which set me upon my knees andupon the palms of my hands.
10:11 And he said unto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved, understandthe words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright: for unto thee amI now sent.And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling.
10:12 Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first daythat thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyselfbefore thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words.
10:13 But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one andtwenty days: but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to helpme; and I remained there with the kings of Persia.
10:14 Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thypeople in the latter days: for yet the vision is for many days.
10:15 And when he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face towardthe ground, and I became dumb.
10:16 And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men touchedmy lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him thatstood before me, O my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned uponme, and I have retained no strength.
10:17 For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord?for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neitheris there breath left in me.
10:18 Then there came again and touched me one like the appearance ofa man, and he strengthened me, 
10:19 And said, O man greatly beloved,fear not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when hehad spoken unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak;for thou hast strengthened me.
10:20 Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee? and nowwill I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am goneforth, lo, the prince of Grecia shall come.
10:21 But I will shew thee that which is noted in the scripture oftruth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, butMichael your prince.
11:1 Also I in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood toconfirm and to strengthen him.
11:2 And now will I shew thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand upyet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer thanthey all: and by his strength through his riches he shall stir up allagainst the realm of Grecia.
11:3 And a mighty king shall stand up, that shall rule with greatdominion, and do according to his will.
11:4 And when he shall stand up, his kingdom shall be broken, andshall be divided toward the four winds of heaven; and not to hisposterity, nor according to his dominion which he ruled: for hiskingdom shall be plucked up, even for others beside those.
11:5 And the king of the south shall be strong, and one of hisprinces; and he shall be strong above him, and have dominion; hisdominion shall be a great dominion.
11:6 And in the end of years they shall join themselves together; forthe king's daughter of the south shall come to the king of the northto make an agreement: but she shall not retain the power of the arm;neither shall he stand, nor his arm: but she shall be given up, andthey that brought her, and he that begat her, and he that strengthenedher in these times.
11:7 But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in hisestate, which shall come with an army, and shall enter into thefortress of the king of the north, and shall deal against them, andshall prevail: 
11:8 And shall also carry captives into Egypt theirgods, with their princes, and with their precious vessels of silverand of gold; and he shall continue more years than the king of thenorth.
11:9 So the king of the south shall come into his kingdom, and shallreturn into his own land.
11:10 But his sons shall be stirred up, and shall assemble a multitudeof great forces: and one shall certainly come, and overflow, and passthrough: then shall he return, and be stirred up, even to hisfortress.
11:11 And the king of the south shall be moved with choler, and shallcome forth and fight with him, even with the king of the north: and heshall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shall be giveninto his hand.
11:12 And when he hath taken away the multitude, his heart shall belifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shall notbe strengthened by it.
11:13 For the king of the north shall return, and shall set forth amultitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come aftercertain years with a great army and with much riches.
11:14 And in those times there shall many stand up against the king ofthe south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves toestablish the vision; but they shall fall.
11:15 So the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, andtake the most fenced cities: and the arms of the south shall notwithstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be anystrength to withstand.
11:16 But he that cometh against him shall do according to his ownwill, and none shall stand before him: and he shall stand in theglorious land, which by his hand shall be consumed.
11:17 He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of hiswhole kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and heshall give him the daughter of women, corrupting her: but she shallnot stand on his side, neither be for him.
11:18 After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shall takemany: but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offeredby him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turnupon him.
11:19 Then he shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: buthe shall stumble and fall, and not be found.
11:20 Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the gloryof the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyed, neither inanger, nor in battle.
11:21 And in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom theyshall not give the honour of the kingdom: but he shall come inpeaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
11:22 And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from beforehim, and shall be broken; yea, also the prince of the covenant.
11:23 And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully:for he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small people.
11:24 He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of theprovince; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, norhis fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey, and spoil,and riches: yea, and he shall forecast his devices against the strongholds, even for a time.
11:25 And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the kingof the south with a great army; and the king of the south shall bestirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shallnot stand: for they shall forecast devices against him.
11:26 Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroyhim, and his army shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain.
11:27 And both of these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief, andthey shall speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: for yetthe end shall be at the time appointed.
11:28 Then shall he return into his land with great riches; and hisheart shall be against the holy covenant; and he shall do exploits,and return to his own land.
11:29 At the time appointed he shall return, and come toward thesouth; but it shall not be as the former, or as the latter.
11:30 For the ships of Chittim shall come against him: therefore heshall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holycovenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligencewith them that forsake the holy covenant.
11:31 And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute thesanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, andthey shall place the abomination that maketh desolate.
11:32 And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt byflatteries: but the people that do know their God shall be strong, anddo exploits.
11:33 And they that understand among the people shall instruct many:yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and byspoil, many days.
11:34 Now when they shall fall, they shall be holpen with a littlehelp: but many shall cleave to them with flatteries.
11:35 And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, andto purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: becauseit is yet for a time appointed.
11:36 And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalthimself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speakmarvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till theindignation be accomplished: for that that is determined shall bedone.
11:37 Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desireof women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all.
11:38 But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces: and a godwhom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold, and silver, andwith precious stones, and pleasant things.
11:39 Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god,whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall causethem to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain.
11:40 And at the time of the end shall the king of the south push athim: and the king of the north shall come against him like awhirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; andhe shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over.
11:41 He shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countriesshall be overthrown: but these shall escape out of his hand, evenEdom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.
11:42 He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and theland of Egypt shall not escape.
11:43 But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and ofsilver, and over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans andthe Ethiopians shall be at his steps.
11:44 But tidings out of the east and out of the north shall troublehim: therefore he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, andutterly to make away many.
11:45 And he shall plant the tabernacles of his palace between theseas in the glorious holy mountain; yet he shall come to his end, andnone shall help him.
12:1 And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince whichstandeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time oftrouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that sametime: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one thatshall be found written in the book.
12:2 And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake,some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
12:3 And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of thefirmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever.
12:4 But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even tothe time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall beincreased.
12:5 Then I Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the oneon this side of the bank of the river, and the other on that side ofthe bank of the river.
12:6 And one said to the man clothed in linen, which was upon thewaters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?
12:7 And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was upon the watersof the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand untoheaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for atime, times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished toscatter the power of the holy people, all these things shall befinished.
12:8 And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, whatshall be the end of these things?  
12:9 And he said, Go thy way,Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of theend.
12:10 Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but thewicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; butthe wise shall understand.
12:11 And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away,and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be athousand two hundred and ninety days.
12:12 Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand threehundred and five and thirty days.
12:13 But go thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest,and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.