1:1 These be the words which Moses spake unto all Israel on this sideJordan in the wilderness, in the plain over against the Red sea,between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
1:2 (There are eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of mountSeir unto Kadeshbarnea.)  
1:3 And it came to pass in the fortiethyear, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Mosesspake unto the children of Israel, according unto all that the LORDhad given him in commandment unto them; 
1:4 After he had slain Sihonthe king of the Amorites, which dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king ofBashan, which dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei: 
1:5 On this side Jordan, inthe land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying, 
1:6 TheLORD our God spake unto us in Horeb, saying, Ye have dwelt long enoughin this mount: 
1:7 Turn you, and take your journey, and go to themount of the Amorites, and unto all the places nigh thereunto, in theplain, in the hills, and in the vale, and in the south, and by the seaside, to the land of the Canaanites, and unto Lebanon, unto the greatriver, the river Euphrates.
1:8 Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the landwhich the LORD sware unto your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, togive unto them and to their seed after them.
1:9 And I spake unto you at that time, saying, I am not able to bearyou myself alone: 
1:10 The LORD your God hath multiplied you, and,behold, ye are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude.
1:11 (The LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times so manymore as ye are, and bless you, as he hath promised you!)  
1:12 How canI myself alone bear your cumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
1:13 Take you wise men, and understanding, and known among yourtribes, and I will make them rulers over you.
1:14 And ye answered me, and said, The thing which thou hast spoken isgood for us to do.
1:15 So I took the chief of your tribes, wise men, and known, and madethem heads over you, captains over thousands, and captains overhundreds, and captains over fifties, and captains over tens, andofficers among your tribes.
1:16 And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the causesbetween your brethren, and judge righteously between every man and hisbrother, and the stranger that is with him.
1:17 Ye shall not respect persons in judgment; but ye shall hear thesmall as well as the great; ye shall not be afraid of the face of man;for the judgment is God's: and the cause that is too hard for you,bring it unto me, and I will hear it.
1:18 And I commanded you at that time all the things which ye shoulddo.
1:19 And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that greatand terrible wilderness, which ye saw by the way of the mountain ofthe Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us; and we came toKadeshbarnea.
1:20 And I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of theAmorites, which the LORD our God doth give unto us.
1:21 Behold, the LORD thy God hath set the land before thee: go up andpossess it, as the LORD God of thy fathers hath said unto thee; fearnot, neither be discouraged.
1:22 And ye came near unto me every one of you, and said, We will sendmen before us, and they shall search us out the land, and bring usword again by what way we must go up, and into what cities we shallcome.
1:23 And the saying pleased me well: and I took twelve men of you, oneof a tribe: 
1:24 And they turned and went up into the mountain, andcame unto the valley of Eshcol, and searched it out.
1:25 And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, andbrought it down unto us, and brought us word again, and said, It is agood land which the LORD our God doth give us.
1:26 Notwithstanding ye would not go up, but rebelled against thecommandment of the LORD your God: 
1:27 And ye murmured in your tents,and said, Because the LORD hated us, he hath brought us forth out ofthe land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, todestroy us.
1:28 Whither shall we go up? our brethren have discouraged our heart,saying, The people is greater and taller than we; the cities are greatand walled up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of theAnakims there.
1:29 Then I said unto you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them.
1:30 The LORD your God which goeth before you, he shall fight for you,according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes; 
1:31 And in the wilderness, where thou hast seen how that the LORD thy Godbare thee, as a man doth bear his son, in all the way that ye went,until ye came into this place.
1:32 Yet in this thing ye did not believe the LORD your God, 
1:33 Whowent in the way before you, to search you out a place to pitch yourtents in, in fire by night, to shew you by what way ye should go, andin a cloud by day.
1:34 And the LORD heard the voice of your words, and was wroth, andsware, saying, 
1:35 Surely there shall not one of these men of thisevil generation see that good land, which I sware to give unto yourfathers.
1:36 Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him willI give the land that he hath trodden upon, and to his children,because he hath wholly followed the LORD.
1:37 Also the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying, Thou alsoshalt not go in thither.
1:38 But Joshua the son of Nun, which standeth before thee, he shallgo in thither: encourage him: for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
1:39 Moreover your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, andyour children, which in that day had no knowledge between good andevil, they shall go in thither, and unto them will I give it, and theyshall possess it.
1:40 But as for you, turn you, and take your journey into thewilderness by the way of the Red sea.
1:41 Then ye answered and said unto me, We have sinned against theLORD, we will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our Godcommanded us.And when ye had girded on every man his weapons of war, ye were readyto go up into the hill.
1:42 And the LORD said unto me, Say unto them. Go not up, neitherfight; for I am not among you; lest ye be smitten before your enemies.
1:43 So I spake unto you; and ye would not hear, but rebelled againstthe commandment of the LORD, and went presumptuously up into the hill.
1:44 And the Amorites, which dwelt in that mountain, came out againstyou, and chased you, as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even untoHormah.
1:45 And ye returned and wept before the LORD; but the LORD would nothearken to your voice, nor give ear unto you.
1:46 So ye abode in Kadesh many days, according unto the days that yeabode there.
2:1 Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by theway of the Red sea, as the LORD spake unto me: and we compassed mountSeir many days.
2:2 And the LORD spake unto me, saying, 
2:3 Ye have compassed thismountain long enough: turn you northward.
2:4 And command thou the people, saying, Ye are to pass through thecoast of your brethren the children of Esau, which dwell in Seir; andthey shall be afraid of you: take ye good heed unto yourselvestherefore: 
2:5 Meddle not with them; for I will not give you of theirland, no, not so much as a foot breadth; because I have given mountSeir unto Esau for a possession.
2:6 Ye shall buy meat of them for money, that ye may eat; and ye shallalso buy water of them for money, that ye may drink.
2:7 For the LORD thy God hath blessed thee in all the works of thyhand: he knoweth thy walking through this great wilderness: theseforty years the LORD thy God hath been with thee; thou hast lackednothing.
2:8 And when we passed by from our brethren the children of Esau,which dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plain from Elath, and fromEziongaber, we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
2:9 And the LORD said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neithercontend with them in battle: for I will not give thee of their landfor a possession; because I have given Ar unto the children of Lot fora possession.
2:10 The Emims dwelt therein in times past, a people great, and many,and tall, as the Anakims; 
2:11 Which also were accounted giants, asthe Anakims; but the Moabites called them Emims.
2:12 The Horims also dwelt in Seir beforetime; but the children ofEsau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them,and dwelt in their stead; as Israel did unto the land of hispossession, which the LORD gave unto them.
2:13 Now rise up, said I, and get you over the brook Zered. And wewent over the brook Zered.
2:14 And the space in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we werecome over the brook Zered, was thirty and eight years; until all thegeneration of the men of war were wasted out from among the host, asthe LORD sware unto them.
2:15 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy themfrom among the host, until they were consumed.
2:16 So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed anddead from among the people, 
2:17 That the LORD spake unto me, saying,
2:18 Thou art to pass over through Ar, the coast of Moab, this day:
2:19 And when thou comest nigh over against the children of Ammon,distress them not, nor meddle with them: for I will not give thee ofthe land of the children of Ammon any possession; because I have givenit unto the children of Lot for a possession.
2:20 (That also was accounted a land of giants: giants dwelt thereinin old time; and the Ammonites call them Zamzummims; 
2:21 A peoplegreat, and many, and tall, as the Anakims; but the LORD destroyed thembefore them; and they succeeded them, and dwelt in their stead: 
2:22 As he did to the children of Esau, which dwelt in Seir, when hedestroyed the Horims from before them; and they succeeded them, anddwelt in their stead even unto this day: 
2:23 And the Avims whichdwelt in Hazerim, even unto Azzah, the Caphtorims, which came forthout of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt in their stead.)  
2:24 Riseye up, take your journey, and pass over the river Arnon: behold, Ihave given into thine hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and hisland: begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.
2:25 This day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear ofthee upon the nations that are under the whole heaven, who shall hearreport of thee, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of thee.
2:26 And I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth untoSihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying, 
2:27 Let me passthrough thy land: I will go along by the high way, I will neither turnunto the right hand nor to the left.
2:28 Thou shalt sell me meat for money, that I may eat; and give mewater for money, that I may drink: only I will pass through on myfeet; 
2:29 (As the children of Esau which dwell in Seir, and theMoabites which dwell in Ar, did unto me;) until I shall pass overJordan into the land which the LORD our God giveth us.
2:30 But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him: for theLORD thy God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, thathe might deliver him into thy hand, as appeareth this day.
2:31 And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have begun to give Sihon andhis land before thee: begin to possess, that thou mayest inherit hisland.
2:32 Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fightat Jahaz.
2:33 And the LORD our God delivered him before us; and we smote him,and his sons, and all his people.
2:34 And we took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyedthe men, and the women, and the little ones, of every city, we leftnone to remain: 
2:35 Only the cattle we took for a prey untoourselves, and the spoil of the cities which we took.
2:36 From Aroer, which is by the brink of the river of Arnon, and fromthe city that is by the river, even unto Gilead, there was not onecity too strong for us: the LORD our God delivered all unto us: 
2:37 Only unto the land of the children of Ammon thou camest not, nor untoany place of the river Jabbok, nor unto the cities in the mountains,nor unto whatsoever the LORD our God forbad us.
3:1 Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the king ofBashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
3:2 And the LORD said unto me, Fear him not: for I will deliver him,and all his people, and his land, into thy hand; and thou shalt dounto him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt atHeshbon.
3:3 So the LORD our God delivered into our hands Og also, the king ofBashan, and all his people: and we smote him until none was left tohim remaining.
3:4 And we took all his cities at that time, there was not a citywhich we took not from them, threescore cities, all the region ofArgob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
3:5 All these cities were fenced with high walls, gates, and bars;beside unwalled towns a great many.
3:6 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did unto Sihon king ofHeshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children, of everycity.
3:7 But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for aprey to ourselves.
3:8 And we took at that time out of the hand of the two kings of theAmorites the land that was on this side Jordan, from the river ofArnon unto mount Hermon; 
3:9 (Which Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion;and the Amorites call it Shenir;) 
3:10 All the cities of the plain,and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei, cities of thekingdom of Og in Bashan.
3:11 For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of giants;behold his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbath ofthe children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length thereof, and fourcubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man.
3:12 And this land, which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, whichis by the river Arnon, and half mount Gilead, and the cities thereof,gave I unto the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
3:13 And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, being the kingdom of Og,gave I unto the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, withall Bashan, which was called the land of giants.
3:14 Jair the son of Manasseh took all the country of Argob unto thecoasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name,Bashanhavothjair, unto this day.
3:15 And I gave Gilead unto Machir.
3:16 And unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites I gave from Gileadeven unto the river Arnon half the valley, and the border even untothe river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon; 
3:17 The plain also, and Jordan, and the coast thereof, from Chinneretheven unto the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, under Ashdothpisgaheastward.
3:18 And I commanded you at that time, saying, The LORD your God hathgiven you this land to possess it: ye shall pass over armed beforeyour brethren the children of Israel, all that are meet for the war.
3:19 But your wives, and your little ones, and your cattle, (for Iknow that ye have much cattle,) shall abide in your cities which Ihave given you; 
3:20 Until the LORD have given rest unto yourbrethren, as well as unto you, and until they also possess the landwhich the LORD your God hath given them beyond Jordan: and then shallye return every man unto his possession, which I have given you.
3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Thine eyes have seenall that the LORD your God hath done unto these two kings: so shallthe LORD do unto all the kingdoms whither thou passest.
3:22 Ye shall not fear them: for the LORD your God he shall fight foryou.
3:23 And I besought the LORD at that time, saying, 
3:24 O Lord GOD,thou hast begun to shew thy servant thy greatness, and thy mightyhand: for what God is there in heaven or in earth, that can doaccording to thy works, and according to thy might?  
3:25 I pray thee,let me go over, and see the good land that is beyond Jordan, thatgoodly mountain, and Lebanon.
3:26 But the LORD was wroth with me for your sakes, and would not hearme: and the LORD said unto me, Let it suffice thee; speak no more untome of this matter.
3:27 Get thee up into the top of Pisgah, and lift up thine eyeswestward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and behold itwith thine eyes: for thou shalt not go over this Jordan.
3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him: for heshall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inheritthe land which thou shalt see.
3:29 So we abode in the valley over against Bethpeor.
4:1 Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes and unto thejudgments, which I teach you, for to do them, that ye may live, and goin and possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers giveth you.
4:2 Ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shallye diminish ought from it, that ye may keep the commandments of theLORD your God which I command you.
4:3 Your eyes have seen what the LORD did because of Baalpeor: for allthe men that followed Baalpeor, the LORD thy God hath destroyed themfrom among you.
4:4 But ye that did cleave unto the LORD your God are alive every oneof you this day.
4:5 Behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the LORDmy God commanded me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go topossess it.
4:6 Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and yourunderstanding in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all thesestatutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise andunderstanding people.
4:7 For what nation is there so great, who hath God so nigh unto them,as the LORD our God is in all things that we call upon him for?  
4:8 And what nation is there so great, that hath statutes and judgments sorighteous as all this law, which I set before you this day?  
4:9 Onlytake heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forgetthe things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thyheart all the days of thy life: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons'sons; 
4:10 Specially the day that thou stoodest before the LORD thyGod in Horeb, when the LORD said unto me, Gather me the peopletogether, and I will make them hear my words, that they may learn tofear me all the days that they shall live upon the earth, and thatthey may teach their children.
4:11 And ye came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountainburned with fire unto the midst of heaven, with darkness, clouds, andthick darkness.
4:12 And the LORD spake unto you out of the midst of the fire: yeheard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude; only ye heard avoice.
4:13 And he declared unto you his covenant, which he commanded you toperform, even ten commandments; and he wrote them upon two tables ofstone.
4:14 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes andjudgments, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over topossess it.
4:15 Take ye therefore good heed unto yourselves; for ye saw no mannerof similitude on the day that the LORD spake unto you in Horeb out ofthe midst of the fire: 
4:16 Lest ye corrupt yourselves, and make you agraven image, the similitude of any figure, the likeness of male orfemale, 
4:17 The likeness of any beast that is on the earth, thelikeness of any winged fowl that flieth in the air, 
4:18 The likenessof any thing that creepeth on the ground, the likeness of any fishthat is in the waters beneath the earth: 
4:19 And lest thou lift upthine eyes unto heaven, and when thou seest the sun, and the moon, andthe stars, even all the host of heaven, shouldest be driven to worshipthem, and serve them, which the LORD thy God hath divided unto allnations under the whole heaven.
4:20 But the LORD hath taken you, and brought you forth out of theiron furnace, even out of Egypt, to be unto him a people ofinheritance, as ye are this day.
4:21 Furthermore the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and swarethat I should not go over Jordan, and that I should not go in untothat good land, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance:
4:22 But I must die in this land, I must not go over Jordan: but yeshall go over, and possess that good land.
4:23 Take heed unto yourselves, lest ye forget the covenant of theLORD your God, which he made with you, and make you a graven image, orthe likeness of any thing, which the LORD thy God hath forbidden thee.
4:24 For the LORD thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God.
4:25 When thou shalt beget children, and children's children, and yeshall have remained long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves,and make a graven image, or the likeness of any thing, and shall doevil in the sight of the LORD thy God, to provoke him to anger: 
4:26 Icall heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that ye shallsoon utterly perish from off the land whereunto ye go over Jordan topossess it; ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterlybe destroyed.
4:27 And the LORD shall scatter you among the nations, and ye shall beleft few in number among the heathen, whither the LORD shall lead you.
4:28 And there ye shall serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood andstone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
4:29 But if from thence thou shalt seek the LORD thy God, thou shaltfind him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul.
4:30 When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come uponthee, even in the latter days, if thou turn to the LORD thy God, andshalt be obedient unto his voice; 
4:31 (For the LORD thy God is amerciful God;) he will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, norforget the covenant of thy fathers which he sware unto them.
4:32 For ask now of the days that are past, which were before thee,since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from theone side of heaven unto the other, whether there hath been any suchthing as this great thing is, or hath been heard like it?  
4:33 Didever people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of thefire, as thou hast heard, and live?  
4:34 Or hath God assayed to goand take him a nation from the midst of another nation, bytemptations, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mightyhand, and by a stretched out arm, and by great terrors, according toall that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
4:35 Unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know that the LORD heis God; there is none else beside him.
4:36 Out of heaven he made thee to hear his voice, that he mightinstruct thee: and upon earth he shewed thee his great fire; and thouheardest his words out of the midst of the fire.
4:37 And because he loved thy fathers, therefore he chose their seedafter them, and brought thee out in his sight with his mighty powerout of Egypt; 
4:38 To drive out nations from before thee greater andmightier than thou art, to bring thee in, to give thee their land foran inheritance, as it is this day.
4:39 Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart, that theLORD he is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there isnone else.
4:40 Thou shalt keep therefore his statutes, and his commandments,which I command thee this day, that it may go well with thee, and withthy children after thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days uponthe earth, which the LORD thy God giveth thee, for ever.
4:41 Then Moses severed three cities on this side Jordan toward thesunrising; 
4:42 That the slayer might flee thither, which should killhis neighbour unawares, and hated him not in times past; and thatfleeing unto one of these cities he might live: 
4:43 Namely, Bezer inthe wilderness, in the plain country, of the Reubenites; and Ramoth inGilead, of the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, of the Manassites.
4:44 And this is the law which Moses set before the children ofIsrael: 
4:45 These are the testimonies, and the statutes, and thejudgments, which Moses spake unto the children of Israel, after theycame forth out of Egypt.
4:46 On this side Jordan, in the valley over against Bethpeor, in theland of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Mosesand the children of Israel smote, after they were come forth out ofEgypt: 
4:47 And they possessed his land, and the land of Og king ofBashan, two kings of the Amorites, which were on this side Jordantoward the sunrising; 
4:48 From Aroer, which is by the bank of theriver Arnon, even unto mount Sion, which is Hermon, 
4:49 And all theplain on this side Jordan eastward, even unto the sea of the plain,under the springs of Pisgah.
5:1 And Moses called all Israel, and said unto them, Hear, O Israel,the statutes and judgments which I speak in your ears this day, thatye may learn them, and keep, and do them.
5:2 The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
5:3 The LORD made not this covenant with our fathers, but with us,even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
5:4 The LORD talked with you face to face in the mount out of themidst of the fire, 
5:5 (I stood between the LORD and you at that time,to shew you the word of the LORD: for ye were afraid by reason of thefire, and went not up into the mount;) saying, 
5:6 I am the LORD thyGod, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house ofbondage.
5:7 Thou shalt have none other gods before me.
5:8 Thou shalt not make thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, orthat is in the waters beneath the earth: 
5:9 Thou shalt not bow downthyself unto them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealousGod, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto thethird and fourth generation of them that hate me, 
5:10 And shewingmercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.
5:11 Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain: for theLORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
5:12 Keep the sabbath day to sanctify it, as the LORD thy God hathcommanded thee.
5:13 Six days thou shalt labour, and do all thy work: 
5:14 But theseventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt notdo any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant,nor thy maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thycattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; that thy manservantand thy maidservant may rest as well as thou.
5:15 And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, andthat the LORD thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty handand by a stretched out arm: therefore the LORD thy God commanded theeto keep the sabbath day.
5:16 Honour thy father and thy mother, as the LORD thy God hathcommanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may gowell with thee, in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
5:17 Thou shalt not kill.
5:18 Neither shalt thou commit adultery.
5:19 Neither shalt thou steal.
5:20 Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour.
5:21 Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour's wife, neither shaltthou covet thy neighbour's house, his field, or his manservant, or hismaidservant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour's.
5:22 These words the LORD spake unto all your assembly in the mountout of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness,with a great voice: and he added no more. And he wrote them in twotables of stone, and delivered them unto me.
5:23 And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst ofthe darkness, (for the mountain did burn with fire,) that ye came nearunto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders; 
5:24 Andye said, Behold, the LORD our God hath shewed us his glory and hisgreatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire:we have seen this day that God doth talk with man, and he liveth.
5:25 Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consumeus: if we hear the voice of the LORD our God any more, then we shalldie.
5:26 For who is there of all flesh, that hath heard the voice of theliving God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, andlived?  
5:27 Go thou near, and hear all that the LORD our God shallsay: and speak thou unto us all that the LORD our God shall speak untothee; and we will hear it, and do it.
5:28 And the LORD heard the voice of your words, when ye spake untome; and the LORD said unto me, I have heard the voice of the words ofthis people, which they have spoken unto thee: they have well said allthat they have spoken.
5:29 O that there were such an heart in them, that they would fear me,and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them,and with their children for ever!  
5:30 Go say to them, Get you intoyour tents again.
5:31 But as for thee, stand thou here by me, and I will speak untothee all the commandments, and the statutes, and the judgments, whichthou shalt teach them, that they may do them in the land which I givethem to possess it.
5:32 Ye shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God hathcommanded you: ye shall not turn aside to the right hand or to theleft.
5:33 Ye shall walk in all the ways which the LORD your God hathcommanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, andthat ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess.
6:1 Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments,which the LORD your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do themin the land whither ye go to possess it: 
6:2 That thou mightest fearthe LORD thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, whichI command thee, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days ofthy life; and that thy days may be prolonged.
6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may bewell with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the LORD God ofthy fathers hath promised thee, in the land that floweth with milk andhoney.
6:4 Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God is one LORD: 
6:5 And thou shaltlove the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, andwith all thy might.
6:6 And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thineheart: 
6:7 And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, andshalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thouwalkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
6:8 And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and theyshall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
6:9 And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thygates.
6:10 And it shall be, when the LORD thy God shall have brought theeinto the land which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac,and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities, which thoubuildedst not, 
6:11 And houses full of all good things, which thoufilledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards andolive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten andbe full; 
6:12 Then beware lest thou forget the LORD, which broughtthee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
6:13 Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God, and serve him, and shalt swearby his name.
6:14 Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the people whichare round about you; 
6:15 (For the LORD thy God is a jealous God amongyou) lest the anger of the LORD thy God be kindled against thee, anddestroy thee from off the face of the earth.
6:16 Ye shall not tempt the LORD your God, as ye tempted him inMassah.
6:17 Ye shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God,and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he hath commanded thee.
6:18 And thou shalt do that which is right and good in the sight ofthe LORD: that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest go inand possess the good land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers.
6:19 To cast out all thine enemies from before thee, as the LORD hathspoken.
6:20 And when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What meanthe testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORDour God hath commanded you?  
6:21 Then thou shalt say unto thy son, Wewere Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt; and the LORD brought us out of Egyptwith a mighty hand: 
6:22 And the LORD shewed signs and wonders, greatand sore, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his household, beforeour eyes: 
6:23 And he brought us out from thence, that he might bringus in, to give us the land which he sware unto our fathers.
6:24 And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear theLORD our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, asit is at this day.
6:25 And it shall be our righteousness, if we observe to do all thesecommandments before the LORD our God, as he hath commanded us.
7:1 When the LORD thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thougoest to possess it, and hath cast out many nations before thee, theHittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites,and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nationsgreater and mightier than thou; 
7:2 And when the LORD thy God shalldeliver them before thee; thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroythem; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor shew mercy unto them:
7:3 Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughter thoushalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thyson.
7:4 For they will turn away thy son from following me, that they mayserve other gods: so will the anger of the LORD be kindled againstyou, and destroy thee suddenly.
7:5 But thus shall ye deal with them; ye shall destroy their altars,and break down their images, and cut down their groves, and burn theirgraven images with fire.
7:6 For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy God: the LORD thyGod hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above allpeople that are upon the face of the earth.
7:7 The LORD did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because yewere more in number than any people; for ye were the fewest of allpeople: 
7:8 But because the LORD loved you, and because he would keepthe oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, hath the LORD broughtyou out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house ofbondmen, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
7:9 Know therefore that the LORD thy God, he is God, the faithful God,which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep hiscommandments to a thousand generations; 
7:10 And repayeth them thathate him to their face, to destroy them: he will not be slack to himthat hateth him, he will repay him to his face.
7:11 Thou shalt therefore keep the commandments, and the statutes, andthe judgments, which I command thee this day, to do them.
7:12 Wherefore it shall come to pass, if ye hearken to thesejudgments, and keep, and do them, that the LORD thy God shall keepunto thee the covenant and the mercy which he sware unto thy fathers:
7:13 And he will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee: he willalso bless the fruit of thy womb, and the fruit of thy land, thy corn,and thy wine, and thine oil, the increase of thy kine, and the flocksof thy sheep, in the land which he sware unto thy fathers to givethee.
7:14 Thou shalt be blessed above all people: there shall not be maleor female barren among you, or among your cattle.
7:15 And the LORD will take away from thee all sickness, and will putnone of the evil diseases of Egypt, which thou knowest, upon thee; butwill lay them upon all them that hate thee.
7:16 And thou shalt consume all the people which the LORD thy Godshall deliver thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them: neithershalt thou serve their gods; for that will be a snare unto thee.
7:17 If thou shalt say in thine heart, These nations are more than I;how can I dispossess them?  
7:18 Thou shalt not be afraid of them: butshalt well remember what the LORD thy God did unto Pharaoh, and untoall Egypt; 
7:19 The great temptations which thine eyes saw, and thesigns, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the stretched outarm, whereby the LORD thy God brought thee out: so shall the LORD thyGod do unto all the people of whom thou art afraid.
7:20 Moreover the LORD thy God will send the hornet among them, untilthey that are left, and hide themselves from thee, be destroyed.
7:21 Thou shalt not be affrighted at them: for the LORD thy God isamong you, a mighty God and terrible.
7:22 And the LORD thy God will put out those nations before thee bylittle and little: thou mayest not consume them at once, lest thebeasts of the field increase upon thee.
7:23 But the LORD thy God shall deliver them unto thee, and shalldestroy them with a mighty destruction, until they be destroyed.
7:24 And he shall deliver their kings into thine hand, and thou shaltdestroy their name from under heaven: there shall no man be able tostand before thee, until thou have destroyed them.
7:25 The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire: thoushalt not desire the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it untothee, lest thou be snared therin: for it is an abomination to the LORDthy God.
7:26 Neither shalt thou bring an abomination into thine house, lestthou be a cursed thing like it: but thou shalt utterly detest it, andthou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a cursed thing.
8:1 All the commandments which I command thee this day shall yeobserve to do, that ye may live, and multiply, and go in and possessthe land which the LORD sware unto your fathers.
8:2 And thou shalt remember all the way which the LORD thy God ledthee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to provethee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep hiscommandments, or no.
8:3 And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed theewith manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; thathe might make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but byevery word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the LORD doth man live.
8:4 Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell,these forty years.
8:5 Thou shalt also consider in thine heart, that, as a man chastenethhis son, so the LORD thy God chasteneth thee.
8:6 Therefore thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORD thy God, towalk in his ways, and to fear him.
8:7 For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land ofbrooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleysand hills; 
8:8 A land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees,and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey; 
8:9 A land whereinthou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack any thingin it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thoumayest dig brass.
8:10 When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the LORDthy God for the good land which he hath given thee.
8:11 Beware that thou forget not the LORD thy God, in not keeping hiscommandments, and his judgments, and his statutes, which I commandthee this day: 
8:12 Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hastbuilt goodly houses, and dwelt therein; 
8:13 And when thy herds andthy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, andall that thou hast is multiplied; 
8:14 Then thine heart be lifted up,and thou forget the LORD thy God, which brought thee forth out of theland of Egypt, from the house of bondage; 
8:15 Who led thee throughthat great and terrible wilderness, wherein were fiery serpents, andscorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brought theeforth water out of the rock of flint; 
8:16 Who fed thee in thewilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he mighthumble thee, and that he might prove thee, to do thee good at thylatter end; 
8:17 And thou say in thine heart, My power and the mightof mine hand hath gotten me this wealth.
8:18 But thou shalt remember the LORD thy God: for it is he thatgiveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenantwhich he sware unto thy fathers, as it is this day.
8:19 And it shall be, if thou do at all forget the LORD thy God, andwalk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testifyagainst you this day that ye shall surely perish.
8:20 As the nations which the LORD destroyeth before your face, soshall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the voice ofthe LORD your God.
9:1 Hear, O Israel: Thou art to pass over Jordan this day, to go in topossess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great andfenced up to heaven, 
9:2 A people great and tall, the children of theAnakims, whom thou knowest, and of whom thou hast heard say, Who canstand before the children of Anak!  
9:3 Understand therefore this day,that the LORD thy God is he which goeth over before thee; as aconsuming fire he shall destroy them, and he shall bring them downbefore thy face: so shalt thou drive them out, and destroy themquickly, as the LORD hath said unto thee.
9:4 Speak not thou in thine heart, after that the LORD thy God hathcast them out from before thee, saying, For my righteousness the LORDhath brought me in to possess this land: but for the wickedness ofthese nations the LORD doth drive them out from before thee.
9:5 Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thine heart,dost thou go to possess their land: but for the wickedness of thesenations the LORD thy God doth drive them out from before thee, andthat he may perform the word which the LORD sware unto thy fathers,Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
9:6 Understand therefore, that the LORD thy God giveth thee not thisgood land to possess it for thy righteousness; for thou art astiffnecked people.
9:7 Remember, and forget not, how thou provokedst the LORD thy God towrath in the wilderness: from the day that thou didst depart out ofthe land of Egypt, until ye came unto this place, ye have beenrebellious against the LORD.
9:8 Also in Horeb ye provoked the LORD to wrath, so that the LORD wasangry with you to have destroyed you.
9:9 When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone,even the tables of the covenant which the LORD made with you, then Iabode in the mount forty days and forty nights, I neither did eatbread nor drink water: 
9:10 And the LORD delivered unto me two tablesof stone written with the finger of God; and on them was writtenaccording to all the words, which the LORD spake with you in the mountout of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
9:11 And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights,that the LORD gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of thecovenant.
9:12 And the LORD said unto me, Arise, get thee down quickly fromhence; for thy people which thou hast brought forth out of Egypt havecorrupted themselves; they are quickly turned aside out of the waywhich I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.
9:13 Furthermore the LORD spake unto me, saying, I have seen thispeople, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 
9:14 Let me alone,that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven:and I will make of thee a nation mightier and greater than they.
9:15 So I turned and came down from the mount, and the mount burnedwith fire: and the two tables of the covenant were in my two hands.
9:16 And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against the LORD yourGod, and had made you a molten calf: ye had turned aside quickly outof the way which the LORD had commanded you.
9:17 And I took the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, andbrake them before your eyes.
9:18 And I fell down before the LORD, as at the first, forty days andforty nights: I did neither eat bread, nor drink water, because of allyour sins which ye sinned, in doing wickedly in the sight of the LORD,to provoke him to anger.
9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, wherewith theLORD was wroth against you to destroy you. But the LORD hearkened untome at that time also.
9:20 And the LORD was very angry with Aaron to have destroyed him: andI prayed for Aaron also the same time.
9:21 And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt itwith fire, and stamped it, and ground it very small, even until it wasas small as dust: and I cast the dust thereof into the brook thatdescended out of the mount.
9:22 And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibrothhattaavah, yeprovoked the LORD to wrath.
9:23 Likewise when the LORD sent you from Kadeshbarnea, saying, Go upand possess the land which I have given you; then ye rebelled againstthe commandment of the LORD your God, and ye believed him not, norhearkened to his voice.
9:24 Ye have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knewyou.
9:25 Thus I fell down before the LORD forty days and forty nights, asI fell down at the first; because the LORD had said he would destroyyou.
9:26 I prayed therefore unto the LORD, and said, O Lord GOD, destroynot thy people and thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed throughthy greatness, which thou hast brought forth out of Egypt with amighty hand.
9:27 Remember thy servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not untothe stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to theirsin: 
9:28 Lest the land whence thou broughtest us out say, Because theLORD was not able to bring them into the land which he promised them,and because he hated them, he hath brought them out to slay them inthe wilderness.
9:29 Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, which thoubroughtest out by thy mighty power and by thy stretched out arm.
10:1 At that time the LORD said unto me, Hew thee two tables of stonelike unto the first, and come up unto me into the mount, and make theean ark of wood.
10:2 And I will write on the tables the words that were in the firsttables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the ark.
10:3 And I made an ark of shittim wood, and hewed two tables of stonelike unto the first, and went up into the mount, having the two tablesin mine hand.
10:4 And he wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, theten commandments, which the LORD spake unto you in the mount out ofthe midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and the LORD gavethem unto me.
10:5 And I turned myself and came down from the mount, and put thetables in the ark which I had made; and there they be, as the LORDcommanded me.
10:6 And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth of thechildren of Jaakan to Mosera: there Aaron died, and there he wasburied; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in hisstead.
10:7 From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah toJotbath, a land of rivers of waters.
10:8 At that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi, to bear theark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to ministerunto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day.
10:9 Wherefore Levi hath no part nor inheritance with his brethren;the LORD is his inheritance, according as the LORD thy God promisedhim.
10:10 And I stayed in the mount, according to the first time, fortydays and forty nights; and the LORD hearkened unto me at that timealso, and the LORD would not destroy thee.
10:11 And the LORD said unto me, Arise, take thy journey before thepeople, that they may go in and possess the land, which I sware untotheir fathers to give unto them.
10:12 And now, Israel, what doth the LORD thy God require of thee, butto fear the LORD thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him,and to serve the LORD thy God with all thy heart and with all thysoul, 
10:13 To keep the commandments of the LORD, and his statutes,which I command thee this day for thy good?  
10:14 Behold, the heavenand the heaven of heavens is the LORD's thy God, the earth also, withall that therein is.
10:15 Only the LORD had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and hechose their seed after them, even you above all people, as it is thisday.
10:16 Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no morestiffnecked.
10:17 For the LORD your God is God of gods, and Lord of lords, a greatGod, a mighty, and a terrible, which regardeth not persons, nor takethreward: 
10:18 He doth execute the judgment of the fatherless andwidow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and raiment.
10:19 Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in theland of Egypt.
10:20 Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; him shalt thou serve, and tohim shalt thou cleave, and swear by his name.
10:21 He is thy praise, and he is thy God, that hath done for theethese great and terrible things, which thine eyes have seen.
10:22 Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and tenpersons; and now the LORD thy God hath made thee as the stars ofheaven for multitude.
11:1 Therefore thou shalt love the LORD thy God, and keep his charge,and his statutes, and his judgments, and his commandments, alway.
11:2 And know ye this day: for I speak not with your children whichhave not known, and which have not seen the chastisement of the LORDyour God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his stretched out arm,
11:3 And his miracles, and his acts, which he did in the midst ofEgypt unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and unto all his land; 
11:4 Andwhat he did unto the army of Egypt, unto their horses, and to theirchariots; how he made the water of the Red sea to overflow them asthey pursued after you, and how the LORD hath destroyed them unto thisday; 
11:5 And what he did unto you in the wilderness, until ye cameinto this place; 
11:6 And what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sonsof Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened her mouth, andswallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and all thesubstance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel:
11:7 But your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which hedid.
11:8 Therefore shall ye keep all the commandments which I command youthis day, that ye may be strong, and go in and possess the land,whither ye go to possess it; 
11:9 And that ye may prolong your days inthe land, which the LORD sware unto your fathers to give unto them andto their seed, a land that floweth with milk and honey.
11:10 For the land, whither thou goest in to possess it, is not as theland of Egypt, from whence ye came out, where thou sowedst thy seed,and wateredst it with thy foot, as a garden of herbs: 
11:11 But theland, whither ye go to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys, anddrinketh water of the rain of heaven: 
11:12 A land which the LORD thyGod careth for: the eyes of the LORD thy God are always upon it, fromthe beginning of the year even unto the end of the year.
11:13 And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently untomy commandments which I command you this day, to love the LORD yourGod, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
11:14 That I will give you the rain of your land in his due season,the first rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather in thycorn, and thy wine, and thine oil.
11:15 And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that thoumayest eat and be full.
11:16 Take heed to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and yeturn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them; 
11:17 And then theLORD's wrath be kindled against you, and he shut up the heaven, thatthere be no rain, and that the land yield not her fruit; and lest yeperish quickly from off the good land which the LORD giveth you.
11:18 Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in your heart and inyour soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand, that they may beas frontlets between your eyes.
11:19 And ye shall teach them your children, speaking of them whenthou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, whenthou liest down, and when thou risest up.
11:20 And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine house,and upon thy gates: 
11:21 That your days may be multiplied, and thedays of your children, in the land which the LORD sware unto yourfathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.
11:22 For if ye shall diligently keep all these commandments which Icommand you, to do them, to love the LORD your God, to walk in all hisways, and to cleave unto him; 
11:23 Then will the LORD drive out allthese nations from before you, and ye shall possess greater nationsand mightier than yourselves.
11:24 Every place whereon the soles of your feet shall tread shall beyours: from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the riverEuphrates, even unto the uttermost sea shall your coast be.
11:25 There shall no man be able to stand before you: for the LORDyour God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all theland that ye shall tread upon, as he hath said unto you.
11:26 Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse; 
11:27 A blessing, if ye obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which Icommand you this day: 
11:28 And a curse, if ye will not obey thecommandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside out of the way whichI command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have notknown.
11:29 And it shall come to pass, when the LORD thy God hath broughtthee in unto the land whither thou goest to possess it, that thoushalt put the blessing upon mount Gerizim, and the curse upon mountEbal.
11:30 Are they not on the other side Jordan, by the way where the sungoeth down, in the land of the Canaanites, which dwell in thechampaign over against Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh?  
11:31 Forye shall pass over Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORDyour God giveth you, and ye shall possess it, and dwell therein.
11:32 And ye shall observe to do all the statutes and judgments whichI set before you this day.
12:1 These are the statutes and judgments, which ye shall observe todo in the land, which the LORD God of thy fathers giveth thee topossess it, all the days that ye live upon the earth.
12:2 Ye shall utterly destroy all the places, wherein the nationswhich ye shall possess served their gods, upon the high mountains, andupon the hills, and under every green tree: 
12:3 And ye shalloverthrow their altars, and break their pillars, and burn their groveswith fire; and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods, anddestroy the names of them out of that place.
12:4 Ye shall not do so unto the LORD your God.
12:5 But unto the place which the LORD your God shall choose out ofall your tribes to put his name there, even unto his habitation shallye seek, and thither thou shalt come: 
12:6 And thither ye shall bringyour burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and heaveofferings of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings,and the firstlings of your herds and of your flocks: 
12:7 And there yeshall eat before the LORD your God, and ye shall rejoice in all thatye put your hand unto, ye and your households, wherein the LORD thyGod hath blessed thee.
12:8 Ye shall not do after all the things that we do here this day,every man whatsoever is right in his own eyes.
12:9 For ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance,which the LORD your God giveth you.
12:10 But when ye go over Jordan, and dwell in the land which the LORDyour God giveth you to inherit, and when he giveth you rest from allyour enemies round about, so that ye dwell in safety; 
12:11 Then thereshall be a place which the LORD your God shall choose to cause hisname to dwell there; thither shall ye bring all that I command you;your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the heaveoffering of your hand, and all your choice vows which ye vow unto theLORD: 
12:12 And ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God, ye, andyour sons, and your daughters, and your menservants, and yourmaidservants, and the Levite that is within your gates; forasmuch ashe hath no part nor inheritance with you.
12:13 Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt offerings inevery place that thou seest: 
12:14 But in the place which the LORDshall choose in one of thy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burntofferings, and there thou shalt do all that I command thee.
12:15 Notwithstanding thou mayest kill and eat flesh in all thy gates,whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, according to the blessing of theLORD thy God which he hath given thee: the unclean and the clean mayeat thereof, as of the roebuck, and as of the hart.
12:16 Only ye shall not eat the blood; ye shall pour it upon the earthas water.
12:17 Thou mayest not eat within thy gates the tithe of thy corn, orof thy wine, or of thy oil, or the firstlings of thy herds or of thyflock, nor any of thy vows which thou vowest, nor thy freewillofferings, or heave offering of thine hand: 
12:18 But thou must eatthem before the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD thy God shallchoose, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, andthy maidservant, and the Levite that is within thy gates: and thoushalt rejoice before the LORD thy God in all that thou puttest thinehands unto.
12:19 Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the Levite as long asthou livest upon the earth.
12:20 When the LORD thy God shall enlarge thy border, as he hathpromised thee, and thou shalt say, I will eat flesh, because thy soullongeth to eat flesh; thou mayest eat flesh, whatsoever thy soullusteth after.
12:21 If the place which the LORD thy God hath chosen to put his namethere be too far from thee, then thou shalt kill of thy herd and ofthy flock, which the LORD hath given thee, as I have commanded thee,and thou shalt eat in thy gates whatsoever thy soul lusteth after.
12:22 Even as the roebuck and the hart is eaten, so thou shalt eatthem: the unclean and the clean shall eat of them alike.
12:23 Only be sure that thou eat not the blood: for the blood is thelife; and thou mayest not eat the life with the flesh.
12:24 Thou shalt not eat it; thou shalt pour it upon the earth aswater.
12:25 Thou shalt not eat it; that it may go well with thee, and withthy children after thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in thesight of the LORD.
12:26 Only thy holy things which thou hast, and thy vows, thou shalttake, and go unto the place which the LORD shall choose: 
12:27 Andthou shalt offer thy burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, uponthe altar of the LORD thy God: and the blood of thy sacrifices shallbe poured out upon the altar of the LORD thy God, and thou shalt eatthe flesh.
12:28 Observe and hear all these words which I command thee, that itmay go well with thee, and with thy children after thee for ever, whenthou doest that which is good and right in the sight of the LORD thyGod.
12:29 When the LORD thy God shall cut off the nations from beforethee, whither thou goest to possess them, and thou succeedest them,and dwellest in their land; 
12:30 Take heed to thyself that thou benot snared by following them, after that they be destroyed from beforethee; and that thou enquire not after their gods, saying, How didthese nations serve their gods? even so will I do likewise.
12:31 Thou shalt not do so unto the LORD thy God: for everyabomination to the LORD, which he hateth, have they done unto theirgods; for even their sons and their daughters they have burnt in thefire to their gods.
12:32 What thing soever I command you, observe to do it: thou shaltnot add thereto, nor diminish from it.
13:1 If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, andgiveth thee a sign or a wonder, 
13:2 And the sign or the wonder cometo pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after othergods, which thou hast not known, and let us serve them; 
13:3 Thoushalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or that dreamer ofdreams: for the LORD your God proveth you, to know whether ye love theLORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
13:4 Ye shall walk after the LORD your God, and fear him, and keep hiscommandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleaveunto him.
13:5 And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put todeath; because he hath spoken to turn you away from the LORD your God,which brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out ofthe house of bondage, to thrust thee out of the way which the LORD thyGod commanded thee to walk in. So shalt thou put the evil away fromthe midst of thee.
13:6 If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, or thydaughter, or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friend, which is as thineown soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve othergods, which thou hast not known, thou, nor thy fathers; 
13:7 Namely,of the gods of the people which are round about you, nigh unto thee,or far off from thee, from the one end of the earth even unto theother end of the earth; 
13:8 Thou shalt not consent unto him, norhearken unto him; neither shall thine eye pity him, neither shalt thouspare, neither shalt thou conceal him: 
13:9 But thou shalt surely killhim; thine hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, andafterwards the hand of all the people.
13:10 And thou shalt stone him with stones, that he die; because hehath sought to thrust thee away from the LORD thy God, which broughtthee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
13:11 And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more anysuch wickedness as this is among you.
13:12 If thou shalt hear say in one of thy cities, which the LORD thyGod hath given thee to dwell there, saying, 
13:13 Certain men, thechildren of Belial, are gone out from among you, and have withdrawnthe inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods,which ye have not known; 
13:14 Then shalt thou enquire, and makesearch, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thingcertain, that such abomination is wrought among you; 
13:15 Thou shaltsurely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword,destroying it utterly, and all that is therein, and the cattlethereof, with the edge of the sword.
13:16 And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the midst of thestreet thereof, and shalt burn with fire the city, and all the spoilthereof every whit, for the LORD thy God: and it shall be an heap forever; it shall not be built again.
13:17 And there shall cleave nought of the cursed thing to thine hand:that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and shew theemercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee, as he hathsworn unto thy fathers; 
13:18 When thou shalt hearken to the voice ofthe LORD thy God, to keep all his commandments which I command theethis day, to do that which is right in the eyes of the LORD thy God.
14:1 Ye are the children of the LORD your God: ye shall not cutyourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
14:2 For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy God, and the LORDhath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all thenations that are upon the earth.
14:3 Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing.
14:4 These are the beasts which ye shall eat: the ox, the sheep, andthe goat, 
14:5 The hart, and the roebuck, and the fallow deer, and thewild goat, and the pygarg, and the wild ox, and the chamois.
14:6 And every beast that parteth the hoof, and cleaveth the cleftinto two claws, and cheweth the cud among the beasts, that ye shalleat.
14:7 Nevertheless these ye shall not eat of them that chew the cud, orof them that divide the cloven hoof; as the camel, and the hare, andthe coney: for they chew the cud, but divide not the hoof; thereforethey are unclean unto you.
14:8 And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not thecud, it is unclean unto you: ye shall not eat of their flesh, nortouch their dead carcase.
14:9 These ye shall eat of all that are in the waters: all that havefins and scales shall ye eat: 
14:10 And whatsoever hath not fins andscales ye may not eat; it is unclean unto you.
14:11 Of all clean birds ye shall eat.
14:12 But these are they of which ye shall not eat: the eagle, and theossifrage, and the ospray, 
14:13 And the glede, and the kite, and thevulture after his kind, 
14:14 And every raven after his kind, 
14:15 And the owl, and the night hawk, and the cuckow, and the hawk afterhis kind, 
14:16 The little owl, and the great owl, and the swan, 
14:17 And the pelican, and the gier eagle, and the cormorant, 
14:18 And thestork, and the heron after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.
14:19 And every creeping thing that flieth is unclean unto you: theyshall not be eaten.
14:20 But of all clean fowls ye may eat.
14:21 Ye shall not eat of anything that dieth of itself: thou shaltgive it unto the stranger that is in thy gates, that he may eat it; orthou mayest sell it unto an alien: for thou art an holy people untothe LORD thy God.Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
14:22 Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that thefield bringeth forth year by year.
14:23 And thou shalt eat before the LORD thy God, in the place whichhe shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy corn, of thywine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thyflocks; that thou mayest learn to fear the LORD thy God always.
14:24 And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou art not ableto carry it; or if the place be too far from thee, which the LORD thyGod shall choose to set his name there, when the LORD thy God hathblessed thee: 
14:25 Then shalt thou turn it into money, and bind upthe money in thine hand, and shalt go unto the place which the LORDthy God shall choose: 
14:26 And thou shalt bestow that money forwhatsoever thy soul lusteth after, for oxen, or for sheep, or forwine, or for strong drink, or for whatsoever thy soul desireth: andthou shalt eat there before the LORD thy God, and thou shalt rejoice,thou, and thine household, 
14:27 And the Levite that is within thygates; thou shalt not forsake him; for he hath no part nor inheritancewith thee.
14:28 At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all the titheof thine increase the same year, and shalt lay it up within thy gates:
14:29 And the Levite, (because he hath no part nor inheritance withthee,) and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, which arewithin thy gates, shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied; that theLORD thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hand which thoudoest.
15:1 At the end of every seven years thou shalt make a release.
15:2 And this is the manner of the release: Every creditor thatlendeth ought unto his neighbour shall release it; he shall not exactit of his neighbour, or of his brother; because it is called theLORD's release.
15:3 Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it again: but that which isthine with thy brother thine hand shall release; 
15:4 Save when thereshall be no poor among you; for the LORD shall greatly bless thee inthe land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance topossess it: 
15:5 Only if thou carefully hearken unto the voice of theLORD thy God, to observe to do all these commandments which I commandthee this day.
15:6 For the LORD thy God blesseth thee, as he promised thee: and thoushalt lend unto many nations, but thou shalt not borrow; and thoushalt reign over many nations, but they shall not reign over thee.
15:7 If there be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren withinany of thy gates in thy land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, thoushalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thine hand from thy poorbrother: 
15:8 But thou shalt open thine hand wide unto him, and shaltsurely lend him sufficient for his need, in that which he wanteth.
15:9 Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart, saying,The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thine eye beevil against thy poor brother, and thou givest him nought; and he cryunto the LORD against thee, and it be sin unto thee.
15:10 Thou shalt surely give him, and thine heart shall not be grievedwhen thou givest unto him: because that for this thing the LORD thyGod shall bless thee in all thy works, and in all that thou puttestthine hand unto.
15:11 For the poor shall never cease out of the land: therefore Icommand thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thybrother, to thy poor, and to thy needy, in thy land.
15:12 And if thy brother, an Hebrew man, or an Hebrew woman, be soldunto thee, and serve thee six years; then in the seventh year thoushalt let him go free from thee.
15:13 And when thou sendest him out free from thee, thou shalt not lethim go away empty: 
15:14 Thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thyflock, and out of thy floor, and out of thy winepress: of thatwherewith the LORD thy God hath blessed thee thou shalt give unto him.
15:15 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land ofEgypt, and the LORD thy God redeemed thee: therefore I command theethis thing to day.
15:16 And it shall be, if he say unto thee, I will not go away fromthee; because he loveth thee and thine house, because he is well withthee; 
15:17 Then thou shalt take an aul, and thrust it through his earunto the door, and he shall be thy servant for ever. And also unto thymaidservant thou shalt do likewise.
15:18 It shall not seem hard unto thee, when thou sendest him awayfree from thee; for he hath been worth a double hired servant to thee,in serving thee six years: and the LORD thy God shall bless thee inall that thou doest.
15:19 All the firstling males that come of thy herd and of thy flockthou shalt sanctify unto the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no work withthe firstling of thy bullock, nor shear the firstling of thy sheep.
15:20 Thou shalt eat it before the LORD thy God year by year in theplace which the LORD shall choose, thou and thy household.
15:21 And if there be any blemish therein, as if it be lame, or blind,or have any ill blemish, thou shalt not sacrifice it unto the LORD thyGod.
15:22 Thou shalt eat it within thy gates: the unclean and the cleanperson shall eat it alike, as the roebuck, and as the hart.
15:23 Only thou shalt not eat the blood thereof; thou shalt pour itupon the ground as water.
16:1 Observe the month of Abib, and keep the passover unto the LORDthy God: for in the month of Abib the LORD thy God brought thee forthout of Egypt by night.
16:2 Thou shalt therefore sacrifice the passover unto the LORD thyGod, of the flock and the herd, in the place which the LORD shallchoose to place his name there.
16:3 Thou shalt eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thoueat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for thoucamest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that thou mayestremember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt allthe days of thy life.
16:4 And there shall be no leavened bread seen with thee in all thycoast seven days; neither shall there any thing of the flesh, whichthou sacrificedst the first day at even, remain all night until themorning.
16:5 Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within any of thy gates,which the LORD thy God giveth thee: 
16:6 But at the place which theLORD thy God shall choose to place his name in, there thou shaltsacrifice the passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at theseason that thou camest forth out of Egypt.
16:7 And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which the LORD thyGod shall choose: and thou shalt turn in the morning, and go unto thytents.
16:8 Six days thou shalt eat unleavened bread: and on the seventh dayshall be a solemn assembly to the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no worktherein.
16:9 Seven weeks shalt thou number unto thee: begin to number theseven weeks from such time as thou beginnest to put the sickle to thecorn.
16:10 And thou shalt keep the feast of weeks unto the LORD thy Godwith a tribute of a freewill offering of thine hand, which thou shaltgive unto the LORD thy God, according as the LORD thy God hath blessedthee: 
16:11 And thou shalt rejoice before the LORD thy God, thou, andthy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant,and the Levite that is within thy gates, and the stranger, and thefatherless, and the widow, that are among you, in the place which theLORD thy God hath chosen to place his name there.
16:12 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt: andthou shalt observe and do these statutes.
16:13 Thou shalt observe the feast of tabernacles seven days, afterthat thou hast gathered in thy corn and thy wine: 
16:14 And thou shaltrejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thymanservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite, the stranger, and thefatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
16:15 Seven days shalt thou keep a solemn feast unto the LORD thy Godin the place which the LORD shall choose: because the LORD thy Godshall bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the works of thinehands, therefore thou shalt surely rejoice.
16:16 Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before the LORDthy God in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavenedbread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: andthey shall not appear before the LORD empty: 
16:17 Every man shallgive as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD thy Godwhich he hath given thee.
16:18 Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, whichthe LORD thy God giveth thee, throughout thy tribes: and they shalljudge the people with just judgment.
16:19 Thou shalt not wrest judgment; thou shalt not respect persons,neither take a gift: for a gift doth blind the eyes of the wise, andpervert the words of the righteous.
16:20 That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, that thoumayest live, and inherit the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
16:21 Thou shalt not plant thee a grove of any trees near unto thealtar of the LORD thy God, which thou shalt make thee.
16:22 Neither shalt thou set thee up any image; which the LORD thy Godhateth.
17:1 Thou shalt not sacrifice unto the LORD thy God any bullock, orsheep, wherein is blemish, or any evilfavouredness: for that is anabomination unto the LORD thy God.
17:2 If there be found among you, within any of thy gates which theLORD thy God giveth thee, man or woman, that hath wrought wickednessin the sight of the LORD thy God, in transgressing his covenant, 
17:3 And hath gone and served other gods, and worshipped them, either thesun, or moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have notcommanded; 
17:4 And it be told thee, and thou hast heard of it, andenquired diligently, and, behold, it be true, and the thing certain,that such abomination is wrought in Israel: 
17:5 Then shalt thou bringforth that man or that woman, which have committed that wicked thing,unto thy gates, even that man or that woman, and shalt stone them withstones, till they die.
17:6 At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall he thatis worthy of death be put to death; but at the mouth of one witness heshall not be put to death.
17:7 The hands of the witnesses shall be first upon him to put him todeath, and afterward the hands of all the people. So thou shalt putthe evil away from among you.
17:8 If there arise a matter too hard for thee in judgment, betweenblood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke,being matters of controversy within thy gates: then shalt thou arise,and get thee up into the place which the LORD thy God shall choose;
17:9 And thou shalt come unto the priests the Levites, and unto thejudge that shall be in those days, and enquire; and they shall shewthee the sentence of judgment: 
17:10 And thou shalt do according tothe sentence, which they of that place which the LORD shall chooseshall shew thee; and thou shalt observe to do according to all thatthey inform thee: 
17:11 According to the sentence of the law whichthey shall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shalltell thee, thou shalt do: thou shalt not decline from the sentencewhich they shall shew thee, to the right hand, nor to the left.
17:12 And the man that will do presumptuously, and will not hearkenunto the priest that standeth to minister there before the LORD thyGod, or unto the judge, even that man shall die: and thou shalt putaway the evil from Israel.
17:13 And all the people shall hear, and fear, and do no morepresumptuously.
17:14 When thou art come unto the land which the LORD thy God giveththee, and shalt possess it, and shalt dwell therein, and shalt say, Iwill set a king over me, like as all the nations that are about me;
17:15 Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the LORD thyGod shall choose: one from among thy brethren shalt thou set king overthee: thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thybrother.
17:16 But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause thepeople to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses:forasmuch as the LORD hath said unto you, Ye shall henceforth returnno more that way.
17:17 Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turnnot away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver andgold.
17:18 And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom,that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book out of that whichis before the priests the Levites: 
17:19 And it shall be with him, andhe shall read therein all the days of his life: that he may learn tofear the LORD his God, to keep all the words of this law and thesestatutes, to do them: 
17:20 That his heart be not lifted up above hisbrethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to theright hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days inhis kingdom, he, and his children, in the midst of Israel.
18:1 The priests the Levites, and all the tribe of Levi, shall have nopart nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of theLORD made by fire, and his inheritance.
18:2 Therefore shall they have no inheritance among their brethren:the LORD is their inheritance, as he hath said unto them.
18:3 And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from themthat offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep; and they shall giveunto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
18:4 The firstfruit also of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil,and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give him.
18:5 For the LORD thy God hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, tostand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for ever.
18:6 And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out of all Israel,where he sojourned, and come with all the desire of his mind unto theplace which the LORD shall choose; 
18:7 Then he shall minister in thename of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, whichstand there before the LORD.
18:8 They shall have like portions to eat, beside that which cometh ofthe sale of his patrimony.
18:9 When thou art come into the land which the LORD thy God giveththee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of thosenations.
18:10 There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his sonor his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, oran observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch.
18:11 Or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard,or a necromancer.
18:12 For all that do these things are an abomination unto the LORD:and because of these abominations the LORD thy God doth drive them outfrom before thee.
18:13 Thou shalt be perfect with the LORD thy God.
18:14 For these nations, which thou shalt possess, hearkened untoobservers of times, and unto diviners: but as for thee, the LORD thyGod hath not suffered thee so to do.
18:15 The LORD thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from themidst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shallhearken; 
18:16 According to all that thou desiredst of the LORD thyGod in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear againthe voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire anymore, that I die not.
18:17 And the LORD said unto me, They have well spoken that which theyhave spoken.
18:18 I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, likeunto thee, and will put my words in his mouth; and he shall speak untothem all that I shall command him.
18:19 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken untomy words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.
18:20 But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my name,which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in thename of other gods, even that prophet shall die.
18:21 And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word whichthe LORD hath not spoken?  
18:22 When a prophet speaketh in the nameof the LORD, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is thething which the LORD hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken itpresumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him.
19:1 When the LORD thy God hath cut off the nations, whose land theLORD thy God giveth thee, and thou succeedest them, and dwellest intheir cities, and in their houses; 
19:2 Thou shalt separate threecities for thee in the midst of thy land, which the LORD thy Godgiveth thee to possess it.
19:3 Thou shalt prepare thee a way, and divide the coasts of thy land,which the LORD thy God giveth thee to inherit, into three parts, thatevery slayer may flee thither.
19:4 And this is the case of the slayer, which shall flee thither,that he may live: Whoso killeth his neighbour ignorantly, whom hehated not in time past; 
19:5 As when a man goeth into the wood withhis neighbour to hew wood, and his hand fetcheth a stroke with the axeto cut down the tree, and the head slippeth from the helve, andlighteth upon his neighbour, that he die; he shall flee unto one ofthose cities, and live: 
19:6 Lest the avenger of the blood pursue theslayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, because the way islong, and slay him; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as hehated him not in time past.
19:7 Wherefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt separate threecities for thee.
19:8 And if the LORD thy God enlarge thy coast, as he hath sworn untothy fathers, and give thee all the land which he promised to give untothy fathers; 
19:9 If thou shalt keep all these commandments to dothem, which I command thee this day, to love the LORD thy God, and towalk ever in his ways; then shalt thou add three cities more for thee,beside these three: 
19:10 That innocent blood be not shed in thy land,which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and so blood beupon thee.
19:11 But if any man hate his neighbour, and lie in wait for him, andrise up against him, and smite him mortally that he die, and fleethinto one of these cities: 
19:12 Then the elders of his city shall sendand fetch him thence, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger ofblood, that he may die.
19:13 Thine eye shall not pity him, but thou shalt put away the guiltof innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with thee.
19:14 Thou shalt not remove thy neighbour's landmark, which they ofold time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit inthe land that the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it.
19:15 One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, orfor any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of twowitnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter beestablished.
19:16 If a false witness rise up against any man to testify againsthim that which is wrong; 
19:17 Then both the men, between whom thecontroversy is, shall stand before the LORD, before the priests andthe judges, which shall be in those days; 
19:18 And the judges shallmake diligent inquisition: and, behold, if the witness be a falsewitness, and hath testified falsely against his brother; 
19:19 Thenshall ye do unto him, as he had thought to have done unto his brother:so shalt thou put the evil away from among you.
19:20 And those which remain shall hear, and fear, and shallhenceforth commit no more any such evil among you.
19:21 And thine eye shall not pity; but life shall go for life, eyefor eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
20:1 When thou goest out to battle against thine enemies, and seesthorses, and chariots, and a people more than thou, be not afraid ofthem: for the LORD thy God is with thee, which brought thee up out ofthe land of Egypt.
20:2 And it shall be, when ye are come nigh unto the battle, that thepriest shall approach and speak unto the people, 
20:3 And shall sayunto them, Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle againstyour enemies: let not your hearts faint, fear not, and do not tremble,neither be ye terrified because of them; 
20:4 For the LORD your God ishe that goeth with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to saveyou.
20:5 And the officers shall speak unto the people, saying, What man isthere that hath built a new house, and hath not dedicated it? let himgo and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another mandedicate it.
20:6 And what man is he that hath planted a vineyard, and hath not yeteaten of it? let him also go and return unto his house, lest he die inthe battle, and another man eat of it.
20:7 And what man is there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath nottaken her? let him go and return unto his house, lest he die in thebattle, and another man take her.
20:8 And the officers shall speak further unto the people, and theyshall say, What man is there that is fearful and fainthearted? let himgo and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart faint as wellas his heart.
20:9 And it shall be, when the officers have made an end of speakingunto the people that they shall make captains of the armies to leadthe people.
20:10 When thou comest nigh unto a city to fight against it, thenproclaim peace unto it.
20:11 And it shall be, if it make thee answer of peace, and open untothee, then it shall be, that all the people that is found thereinshall be tributaries unto thee, and they shall serve thee.
20:12 And if it will make no peace with thee, but will make waragainst thee, then thou shalt besiege it: 
20:13 And when the LORD thyGod hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every malethereof with the edge of the sword: 
20:14 But the women, and thelittle ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all thespoil thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself; and thou shalt eat thespoil of thine enemies, which the LORD thy God hath given thee.
20:15 Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are very far offfrom thee, which are not of the cities of these nations.
20:16 But of the cities of these people, which the LORD thy God dothgive thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing thatbreatheth: 
20:17 But thou shalt utterly destroy them; namely, theHittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, theHivites, and the Jebusites; as the LORD thy God hath commanded thee:
20:18 That they teach you not to do after all their abominations,which they have done unto their gods; so should ye sin against theLORD your God.
20:19 When thou shalt besiege a city a long time, in making waragainst it to take it, thou shalt not destroy the trees thereof byforcing an axe against them: for thou mayest eat of them, and thoushalt not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man's life) toemploy them in the siege: 
20:20 Only the trees which thou knowest thatthey be not trees for meat, thou shalt destroy and cut them down; andthou shalt build bulwarks against the city that maketh war with thee,until it be subdued.
21:1 If one be found slain in the land which the LORD thy God giveththee to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not known who hathslain him: 
21:2 Then thy elders and thy judges shall come forth, andthey shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that isslain: 
21:3 And it shall be, that the city which is next unto theslain man, even the elders of that city shall take an heifer, whichhath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke; 
21:4 And the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a roughvalley, which is neither eared nor sown, and shall strike off theheifer's neck there in the valley: 
21:5 And the priests the sons ofLevi shall come near; for them the LORD thy God hath chosen tominister unto him, and to bless in the name of the LORD; and by theirword shall every controversy and every stroke be tried: 
21:6 And allthe elders of that city, that are next unto the slain man, shall washtheir hands over the heifer that is beheaded in the valley: 
21:7 Andthey shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neitherhave our eyes seen it.
21:8 Be merciful, O LORD, unto thy people Israel, whom thou hastredeemed, and lay not innocent blood unto thy people of Israel'scharge. And the blood shall be forgiven them.
21:9 So shalt thou put away the guilt of innocent blood from amongyou, when thou shalt do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.
21:10 When thou goest forth to war against thine enemies, and the LORDthy God hath delivered them into thine hands, and thou hast taken themcaptive, 
21:11 And seest among the captives a beautiful woman, andhast a desire unto her, that thou wouldest have her to thy wife; 
21:12 Then thou shalt bring her home to thine house, and she shall shave herhead, and pare her nails; 
21:13 And she shall put the raiment of hercaptivity from off her, and shall remain in thine house, and bewailher father and her mother a full month: and after that thou shalt goin unto her, and be her husband, and she shall be thy wife.
21:14 And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, then thou shaltlet her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her at all formoney, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thou hasthumbled her.
21:15 If a man have two wives, one beloved, and another hated, andthey have born him children, both the beloved and the hated; and ifthe firstborn son be hers that was hated: 
21:16 Then it shall be, whenhe maketh his sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not makethe son of the beloved firstborn before the son of the hated, which isindeed the firstborn: 
21:17 But he shall acknowledge the son of thehated for the firstborn, by giving him a double portion of all that hehath: for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of thefirstborn is his.
21:18 If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obeythe voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and that, whenthey have chastened him, will not hearken unto them: 
21:19 Then shallhis father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto theelders of his city, and unto the gate of his place; 
21:20 And theyshall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn andrebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and adrunkard.
21:21 And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones, that hedie: so shalt thou put evil away from among you; and all Israel shallhear, and fear.
21:22 And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be tobe put to death, and thou hang him on a tree: 
21:23 His body shall notremain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt in any wise bury himthat day; (for he that is hanged is accursed of God;) that thy land benot defiled, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.
22:1 Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, andhide thyself from them: thou shalt in any case bring them again untothy brother.
22:2 And if thy brother be not nigh unto thee, or if thou know himnot, then thou shalt bring it unto thine own house, and it shall bewith thee until thy brother seek after it, and thou shalt restore itto him again.
22:3 In like manner shalt thou do with his ass; and so shalt thou dowith his raiment; and with all lost thing of thy brother's, which hehath lost, and thou hast found, shalt thou do likewise: thou mayestnot hide thyself.
22:4 Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox fall down by theway, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely help him to liftthem up again.
22:5 The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man,neither shall a man put on a woman's garment: for all that do so areabomination unto the LORD thy God.
22:6 If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way in any tree,or on the ground, whether they be young ones, or eggs, and the damsitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the damwith the young: 
22:7 But thou shalt in any wise let the dam go, andtake the young to thee; that it may be well with thee, and that thoumayest prolong thy days.
22:8 When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt make a battlementfor thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thine house, if any manfall from thence.
22:9 Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds: lest the fruitof thy seed which thou hast sown, and the fruit of thy vineyard, bedefiled.
22:10 Thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass together.
22:11 Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, as of woollen andlinen together.
22:12 Thou shalt make thee fringes upon the four quarters of thyvesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself.
22:13 If any man take a wife, and go in unto her, and hate her, 
22:14 And give occasions of speech against her, and bring up an evil nameupon her, and say, I took this woman, and when I came to her, I foundher not a maid: 
22:15 Then shall the father of the damsel, and hermother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity untothe elders of the city in the gate: 
22:16 And the damsel's fathershall say unto the elders, I gave my daughter unto this man to wife,and he hateth her; 
22:17 And, lo, he hath given occasions of speechagainst her, saying, I found not thy daughter a maid; and yet theseare the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread thecloth before the elders of the city.
22:18 And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastisehim; 
22:19 And they shall amerce him in an hundred shekels of silver,and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath broughtup an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; hemay not put her away all his days.
22:20 But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be notfound for the damsel: 
22:21 Then they shall bring out the damsel tothe door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stoneher with stones that she die: because she hath wrought folly inIsrael, to play the whore in her father's house: so shalt thou putevil away from among you.
22:22 If a man be found lying with a woman married to an husband, thenthey shall both of them die, both the man that lay with the woman, andthe woman: so shalt thou put away evil from Israel.
22:23 If a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto an husband, and aman find her in the city, and lie with her; 
22:24 Then ye shall bringthem both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them withstones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in thecity; and the man, because he hath humbled his neighbour's wife: sothou shalt put away evil from among you.
22:25 But if a man find a betrothed damsel in the field, and the manforce her, and lie with her: then the man only that lay with her shalldie.
22:26 But unto the damsel thou shalt do nothing; there is in thedamsel no sin worthy of death: for as when a man riseth against hisneighbour, and slayeth him, even so is this matter: 
22:27 For he foundher in the field, and the betrothed damsel cried, and there was noneto save her.
22:28 If a man find a damsel that is a virgin, which is not betrothed,and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found; 
22:29 Thenthe man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel's father fiftyshekels of silver, and she shall be his wife; because he hath humbledher, he may not put her away all his days.
22:30 A man shall not take his father's wife, nor discover hisfather's skirt.
23:1 He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cutoff, shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD.
23:2 A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD; evento his tenth generation shall he not enter into the congregation ofthe LORD.
23:3 An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation ofthe LORD; even to their tenth generation shall they not enter into thecongregation of the LORD for ever: 
23:4 Because they met you not withbread and with water in the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt; andbecause they hired against thee Balaam the son of Beor of Pethor ofMesopotamia, to curse thee.
23:5 Nevertheless the LORD thy God would not hearken unto Balaam; butthe LORD thy God turned the curse into a blessing unto thee, becausethe LORD thy God loved thee.
23:6 Thou shalt not seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy daysfor ever.
23:7 Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother: thoushalt not abhor an Egyptian; because thou wast a stranger in his land.
23:8 The children that are begotten of them shall enter into thecongregation of the LORD in their third generation.
23:9 When the host goeth forth against thine enemies, then keep theefrom every wicked thing.
23:10 If there be among you any man, that is not clean by reason ofuncleanness that chanceth him by night, then shall he go abroad out ofthe camp, he shall not come within the camp: 
23:11 But it shall be,when evening cometh on, he shall wash himself with water: and when thesun is down, he shall come into the camp again.
23:12 Thou shalt have a place also without the camp, whither thoushalt go forth abroad: 
23:13 And thou shalt have a paddle upon thyweapon; and it shall be, when thou wilt ease thyself abroad, thoushalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which comethfrom thee: 
23:14 For the LORD thy God walketh in the midst of thycamp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee;therefore shall thy camp be holy: that he see no unclean thing inthee, and turn away from thee.
23:15 Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which isescaped from his master unto thee: 
23:16 He shall dwell with thee,even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thygates, where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him.
23:17 There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, nor asodomite of the sons of Israel.
23:18 Thou shalt not bring the hire of a whore, or the price of a dog,into the house of the LORD thy God for any vow: for even both theseare abomination unto the LORD thy God.
23:19 Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money,usury of victuals, usury of any thing that is lent upon usury: 
23:20 Unto a stranger thou mayest lend upon usury; but unto thy brother thoushalt not lend upon usury: that the LORD thy God may bless thee in allthat thou settest thine hand to in the land whither thou goest topossess it.
23:21 When thou shalt vow a vow unto the LORD thy God, thou shalt notslack to pay it: for the LORD thy God will surely require it of thee;and it would be sin in thee.
23:22 But if thou shalt forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in thee.
23:23 That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt keep and perform;even a freewill offering, according as thou hast vowed unto the LORDthy God, which thou hast promised with thy mouth.
23:24 When thou comest into thy neighbour's vineyard, then thou mayesteat grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put anyin thy vessel.
23:25 When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour, thenthou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move asickle unto thy neighbour's standing corn.
24:1 When a man hath taken a wife, and married her, and it come topass that she find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found someuncleanness in her: then let him write her a bill of divorcement, andgive it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
24:2 And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and beanother man's wife.
24:3 And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill ofdivorcement, and giveth it in her hand, and sendeth her out of hishouse; or if the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife;
24:4 Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her againto be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abominationbefore the LORD: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which theLORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.
24:5 When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war,neither shall he be charged with any business: but he shall be free athome one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.
24:6 No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge:for he taketh a man's life to pledge.
24:7 If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children ofIsrael, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that thiefshall die; and thou shalt put evil away from among you.
24:8 Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently,and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you:as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do.
24:9 Remember what the LORD thy God did unto Miriam by the way, afterthat ye were come forth out of Egypt.
24:10 When thou dost lend thy brother any thing, thou shalt not gointo his house to fetch his pledge.
24:11 Thou shalt stand abroad, and the man to whom thou dost lendshall bring out the pledge abroad unto thee.
24:12 And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge:
24:13 In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sungoeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: andit shall be righteousness unto thee before the LORD thy God.
24:14 Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that is poor and needy,whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy strangers that are in thyland within thy gates: 
24:15 At his day thou shalt give him his hire,neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth hisheart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto the LORD, and it be sinunto thee.
24:16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neithershall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall beput to death for his own sin.
24:17 Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of thefatherless; nor take a widow's raiment to pledge: 
24:18 But thou shaltremember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the LORD thy Godredeemed thee thence: therefore I command thee to do this thing.
24:19 When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hastforgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: itshall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow: thatthe LORD thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands.
24:20 When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over theboughs again: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, andfor the widow.
24:21 When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt notglean it afterward: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless,and for the widow.
24:22 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land ofEgypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.
25:1 If there be a controversy between men, and they come untojudgment, that the judges may judge them; then they shall justify therighteous, and condemn the wicked.
25:2 And it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, thatthe judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before hisface, according to his fault, by a certain number.
25:3 Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed: lest, if he shouldexceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then thy brothershould seem vile unto thee.
25:4 Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.
25:5 If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, and have nochild, the wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger:her husband's brother shall go in unto her, and take her to him towife, and perform the duty of an husband's brother unto her.
25:6 And it shall be, that the firstborn which she beareth shallsucceed in the name of his brother which is dead, that his name be notput out of Israel.
25:7 And if the man like not to take his brother's wife, then let hisbrother's wife go up to the gate unto the elders, and say, Myhusband's brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name inIsrael, he will not perform the duty of my husband's brother.
25:8 Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak unto him:and if he stand to it, and say, I like not to take her; 
25:9 Thenshall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders,and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face, and shallanswer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not buildup his brother's house.
25:10 And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him thathath his shoe loosed.
25:11 When men strive together one with another, and the wife of theone draweth near for to deliver her husband out of the hand of himthat smiteth him, and putteth forth her hand, and taketh him by thesecrets: 
25:12 Then thou shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall notpity her.
25:13 Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weights, a great and asmall.
25:14 Thou shalt not have in thine house divers measures, a great anda small.
25:15 But thou shalt have a perfect and just weight, a perfect andjust measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be lengthened in theland which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
25:16 For all that do such things, and all that do unrighteously, arean abomination unto the LORD thy God.
25:17 Remember what Amalek did unto thee by the way, when ye were comeforth out of Egypt; 
25:18 How he met thee by the way, and smote thehindmost of thee, even all that were feeble behind thee, when thouwast faint and weary; and he feared not God.
25:19 Therefore it shall be, when the LORD thy God hath given theerest from all thine enemies round about, in the land which the LORDthy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it, that thou shaltblot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; thou shalt notforget it.
26:1 And it shall be, when thou art come in unto the land which theLORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and possessest it, anddwellest therein; 
26:2 That thou shalt take of the first of all thefruit of the earth, which thou shalt bring of thy land that the LORDthy God giveth thee, and shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go untothe place which the LORD thy God shall choose to place his name there.
26:3 And thou shalt go unto the priest that shall be in those days,and say unto him, I profess this day unto the LORD thy God, that I amcome unto the country which the LORD sware unto our fathers for togive us.
26:4 And the priest shall take the basket out of thine hand, and setit down before the altar of the LORD thy God.
26:5 And thou shalt speak and say before the LORD thy God, A Syrianready to perish was my father, and he went down into Egypt, andsojourned there with a few, and became there a nation, great, mighty,and populous: 
26:6 And the Egyptians evil entreated us, and afflictedus, and laid upon us hard bondage: 
26:7 And when we cried unto theLORD God of our fathers, the LORD heard our voice, and looked on ouraffliction, and our labour, and our oppression: 
26:8 And the LORDbrought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with anoutstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs, andwith wonders: 
26:9 And he hath brought us into this place, and hathgiven us this land, even a land that floweth with milk and honey.
26:10 And now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land,which thou, O LORD, hast given me. And thou shalt set it before theLORD thy God, and worship before the LORD thy God: 
26:11 And thoushalt rejoice in every good thing which the LORD thy God hath givenunto thee, and unto thine house, thou, and the Levite, and thestranger that is among you.
26:12 When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tithes of thineincrease the third year, which is the year of tithing, and hast givenit unto the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, thatthey may eat within thy gates, and be filled; 
26:13 Then thou shaltsay before the LORD thy God, I have brought away the hallowed thingsout of mine house, and also have given them unto the Levite, and untothe stranger, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to allthy commandments which thou hast commanded me: I have not transgressedthy commandments, neither have I forgotten them.
26:14 I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I takenaway ought thereof for any unclean use, nor given ought thereof forthe dead: but I have hearkened to the voice of the LORD my God, andhave done according to all that thou hast commanded me.
26:15 Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thypeople Israel, and the land which thou hast given us, as thou swarestunto our fathers, a land that floweth with milk and honey.
26:16 This day the LORD thy God hath commanded thee to do thesestatutes and judgments: thou shalt therefore keep and do them with allthine heart, and with all thy soul.
26:17 Thou hast avouched the LORD this day to be thy God, and to walkin his ways, and to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and hisjudgments, and to hearken unto his voice: 
26:18 And the LORD hathavouched thee this day to be his peculiar people, as he hath promisedthee, and that thou shouldest keep all his commandments; 
26:19 And tomake thee high above all nations which he hath made, in praise, and inname, and in honour; and that thou mayest be an holy people unto theLORD thy God, as he hath spoken.
27:1 And Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying,Keep all the commandments which I command you this day.
27:2 And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan untothe land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set theeup great stones, and plaister them with plaister: 
27:3 And thou shaltwrite upon them all the words of this law, when thou art passed over,that thou mayest go in unto the land which the LORD thy God giveththee, a land that floweth with milk and honey; as the LORD God of thyfathers hath promised thee.
27:4 Therefore it shall be when ye be gone over Jordan, that ye shallset up these stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, andthou shalt plaister them with plaister.
27:5 And there shalt thou build an altar unto the LORD thy God, analtar of stones: thou shalt not lift up any iron tool upon them.
27:6 Thou shalt build the altar of the LORD thy God of whole stones:and thou shalt offer burnt offerings thereon unto the LORD thy God:
27:7 And thou shalt offer peace offerings, and shalt eat there, andrejoice before the LORD thy God.
27:8 And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this lawvery plainly.
27:9 And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel,saying, Take heed, and hearken, O Israel; this day thou art become thepeople of the LORD thy God.
27:10 Thou shalt therefore obey the voice of the LORD thy God, and dohis commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day.
27:11 And Moses charged the people the same day, saying, 
27:12 Theseshall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people, when ye are comeover Jordan; Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph,and Benjamin: 
27:13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to curse;Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
27:14 And the Levites shall speak, and say unto all the men of Israelwith a loud voice, 
27:15 Cursed be the man that maketh any graven ormolten image, an abomination unto the LORD, the work of the hands ofthe craftsman, and putteth it in a secret place. And all the peopleshall answer and say, Amen.
27:16 Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother. Andall the people shall say, Amen.
27:17 Cursed be he that removeth his neighbour's landmark. And all thepeople shall say, Amen.
27:18 Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way. Andall the people shall say, Amen.
27:19 Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger,fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:20 Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife; because heuncovereth his father's skirt. And all the people shall say, Amen.
27:21 Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast. And all thepeople shall say, Amen.
27:22 Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of hisfather, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say,Amen.
27:23 Cursed be he that lieth with his mother in law. And all thepeople shall say, Amen.
27:24 Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly. And all thepeople shall say, Amen.
27:25 Cursed be he that taketh reward to slay an innocent person. Andall the people shall say, Amen.
27:26 Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the words of this law to dothem. And all the people shall say, Amen.
28:1 And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently untothe voice of the LORD thy God, to observe and to do all hiscommandments which I command thee this day, that the LORD thy God willset thee on high above all nations of the earth: 
28:2 And all theseblessings shall come on thee, and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearkenunto the voice of the LORD thy God.
28:3 Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be inthe field.
28:4 Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thyground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and theflocks of thy sheep.
28:5 Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store.
28:6 Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thoube when thou goest out.
28:7 The LORD shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee tobe smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way,and flee before thee seven ways.
28:8 The LORD shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses,and in all that thou settest thine hand unto; and he shall bless theein the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
28:9 The LORD shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as hehath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORDthy God, and walk in his ways.
28:10 And all people of the earth shall see that thou art called bythe name of the LORD; and they shall be afraid of thee.
28:11 And the LORD shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit ofthy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thyground, in the land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers to givethee.
28:12 The LORD shall open unto thee his good treasure, the heaven togive the rain unto thy land in his season, and to bless all the workof thine hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shaltnot borrow.
28:13 And the LORD shall make thee the head, and not the tail; andthou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thouhearken unto the commandments of the LORD thy God, which I commandthee this day, to observe and to do them: 
28:14 And thou shalt not goaside from any of the words which I command thee this day, to theright hand, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
28:15 But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto thevoice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments andhis statutes which I command thee this day; that all these cursesshall come upon thee, and overtake thee: 
28:16 Cursed shalt thou be inthe city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field.
28:17 Cursed shall be thy basket and thy store.
28:18 Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thyland, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.
28:19 Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thoube when thou goest out.
28:20 The LORD shall send upon thee cursing, vexation, and rebuke, inall that thou settest thine hand unto for to do, until thou bedestroyed, and until thou perish quickly; because of the wickedness ofthy doings, whereby thou hast forsaken me.
28:21 The LORD shall make the pestilence cleave unto thee, until hehave consumed thee from off the land, whither thou goest to possessit.
28:22 The LORD shall smite thee with a consumption, and with a fever,and with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with thesword, and with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue theeuntil thou perish.
28:23 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and theearth that is under thee shall be iron.
28:24 The LORD shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust: fromheaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
28:25 The LORD shall cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies:thou shalt go out one way against them, and flee seven ways beforethem: and shalt be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.
28:26 And thy carcase shall be meat unto all fowls of the air, andunto the beasts of the earth, and no man shall fray them away.
28:27 The LORD will smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with theemerods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou canst notbe healed.
28:28 The LORD shall smite thee with madness, and blindness, andastonishment of heart: 
28:29 And thou shalt grope at noonday, as theblind gropeth in darkness, and thou shalt not prosper in thy ways: andthou shalt be only oppressed and spoiled evermore, and no man shallsave thee.
28:30 Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her:thou shalt build an house, and thou shalt not dwell therein: thoushalt plant a vineyard, and shalt not gather the grapes thereof.
28:31 Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and thou shalt noteat thereof: thine ass shall be violently taken away from before thyface, and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheep shall be given untothine enemies, and thou shalt have none to rescue them.
28:32 Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto another people,and thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the daylong; and there shall be no might in thine hand.
28:33 The fruit of thy land, and all thy labours, shall a nation whichthou knowest not eat up; and thou shalt be only oppressed and crushedalway: 
28:34 So that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine eyeswhich thou shalt see.
28:35 The LORD shall smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with asore botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto thetop of thy head.
28:36 The LORD shall bring thee, and thy king which thou shalt setover thee, unto a nation which neither thou nor thy fathers haveknown; and there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and stone.
28:37 And thou shalt become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword,among all nations whither the LORD shall lead thee.
28:38 Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gatherbut little in; for the locust shall consume it.
28:39 Thou shalt plant vineyards, and dress them, but shalt neitherdrink of the wine, nor gather the grapes; for the worms shall eatthem.
28:40 Thou shalt have olive trees throughout all thy coasts, but thoushalt not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive shall cast hisfruit.
28:41 Thou shalt beget sons and daughters, but thou shalt not enjoythem; for they shall go into captivity.
28:42 All thy trees and fruit of thy land shall the locust consume.
28:43 The stranger that is within thee shall get up above thee veryhigh; and thou shalt come down very low.
28:44 He shall lend to thee, and thou shalt not lend to him: he shallbe the head, and thou shalt be the tail.
28:45 Moreover all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursuethee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed; because thouhearkenedst not unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep hiscommandments and his statutes which he commanded thee: 
28:46 And theyshall be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed forever.
28:47 Because thou servedst not the LORD thy God with joyfulness, andwith gladness of heart, for the abundance of all things; 
28:48 Therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies which the LORD shall sendagainst thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in wantof all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until hehave destroyed thee.
28:49 The LORD shall bring a nation against thee from far, from theend of the earth, as swift as the eagle flieth; a nation whose tonguethou shalt not understand; 
28:50 A nation of fierce countenance, whichshall not regard the person of the old, nor shew favour to the young:
28:51 And he shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit of thyland, until thou be destroyed: which also shall not leave thee eithercorn, wine, or oil, or the increase of thy kine, or flocks of thysheep, until he have destroyed thee.
28:52 And he shall besiege thee in all thy gates, until thy high andfenced walls come down, wherein thou trustedst, throughout all thyland: and he shall besiege thee in all thy gates throughout all thyland, which the LORD thy God hath given thee.
28:53 And thou shalt eat the fruit of thine own body, the flesh of thysons and of thy daughters, which the LORD thy God hath given thee, inthe siege, and in the straitness, wherewith thine enemies shalldistress thee: 
28:54 So that the man that is tender among you, andvery delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and towardthe wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children which heshall leave: 
28:55 So that he will not give to any of them of theflesh of his children whom he shall eat: because he hath nothing lefthim in the siege, and in the straitness, wherewith thine enemies shalldistress thee in all thy gates.
28:56 The tender and delicate woman among you, which would notadventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicatenessand tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom,and toward her son, and toward her daughter, 
28:57 And toward heryoung one that cometh out from between her feet, and toward herchildren which she shall bear: for she shall eat them for want of allthings secretly in the siege and straitness, wherewith thine enemyshall distress thee in thy gates.
28:58 If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law thatare written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious andfearful name, THE LORD THY GOD; 
28:59 Then the LORD will make thyplagues wonderful, and the plagues of thy seed, even great plagues,and of long continuance, and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance.
28:60 Moreover he will bring upon thee all the diseases of Egypt,which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave unto thee.
28:61 Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written inthe book of this law, them will the LORD bring upon thee, until thoube destroyed.
28:62 And ye shall be left few in number, whereas ye were as the starsof heaven for multitude; because thou wouldest not obey the voice ofthe LORD thy God.
28:63 And it shall come to pass, that as the LORD rejoiced over you todo you good, and to multiply you; so the LORD will rejoice over you todestroy you, and to bring you to nought; and ye shall be plucked fromoff the land whither thou goest to possess it.
28:64 And the LORD shall scatter thee among all people, from the oneend of the earth even unto the other; and there thou shalt serve othergods, which neither thou nor thy fathers have known, even wood andstone.
28:65 And among these nations shalt thou find no ease, neither shallthe sole of thy foot have rest: but the LORD shall give thee there atrembling heart, and failing of eyes, and sorrow of mind: 
28:66 Andthy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and thou shalt fear day andnight, and shalt have none assurance of thy life: 
28:67 In the morningthou shalt say, Would God it were even! and at even thou shalt say,Would God it were morning! for the fear of thine heart wherewith thoushalt fear, and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.
28:68 And the LORD shall bring thee into Egypt again with ships, bythe way whereof I spake unto thee, Thou shalt see it no more again:and there ye shall be sold unto your enemies for bondmen andbondwomen, and no man shall buy you.
29:1 These are the words of the covenant, which the LORD commandedMoses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besidethe covenant which he made with them in Horeb.
29:2 And Moses called unto all Israel, and said unto them, Ye haveseen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt untoPharaoh, and unto all his servants, and unto all his land; 
29:3 Thegreat temptations which thine eyes have seen, the signs, and thosegreat miracles: 
29:4 Yet the LORD hath not given you an heart toperceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, unto this day.
29:5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothesare not waxen old upon you, and thy shoe is not waxen old upon thyfoot.
29:6 Ye have not eaten bread, neither have ye drunk wine or strongdrink: that ye might know that I am the LORD your God.
29:7 And when ye came unto this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, andOg the king of Bashan, came out against us unto battle, and we smotethem: 
29:8 And we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance untothe Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half tribe of Manasseh.
29:9 Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that yemay prosper in all that ye do.
29:10 Ye stand this day all of you before the LORD your God; yourcaptains of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, with all themen of Israel, 
29:11 Your little ones, your wives, and thy strangerthat is in thy camp, from the hewer of thy wood unto the drawer of thywater: 
29:12 That thou shouldest enter into covenant with the LORD thyGod, and into his oath, which the LORD thy God maketh with thee thisday: 
29:13 That he may establish thee to day for a people untohimself, and that he may be unto thee a God, as he hath said untothee, and as he hath sworn unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, andto Jacob.
29:14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath;
29:15 But with him that standeth here with us this day before the LORDour God, and also with him that is not here with us this day: 
29:16 (For ye know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt; and how we camethrough the nations which ye passed by; 
29:17 And ye have seen theirabominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, whichwere among them:) 
29:18 Lest there should be among you man, or woman,or family, or tribe, whose heart turneth away this day from the LORDour God, to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there shouldbe among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood; 
29:19 And it cometo pass, when he heareth the words of this curse, that he blesshimself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in theimagination of mine heart, to add drunkenness to thirst: 
29:20 TheLORD will not spare him, but then the anger of the LORD and hisjealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that arewritten in this book shall lie upon him, and the LORD shall blot outhis name from under heaven.
29:21 And the LORD shall separate him unto evil out of all the tribesof Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that arewritten in this book of the law: 
29:22 So that the generation to comeof your children that shall rise up after you, and the stranger thatshall come from a far land, shall say, when they see the plagues ofthat land, and the sicknesses which the LORD hath laid upon it; 
29:23 And that the whole land thereof is brimstone, and salt, and burning,that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, likethe overthrow of Sodom, and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which theLORD overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath: 
29:24 Even all nationsshall say, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus unto this land? whatmeaneth the heat of this great anger?  
29:25 Then men shall say,Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of theirfathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of theland of Egypt: 
29:26 For they went and served other gods, andworshipped them, gods whom they knew not, and whom he had not givenunto them: 
29:27 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against thisland, to bring upon it all the curses that are written in this book:
29:28 And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger, and inwrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, asit is this day.
29:29 The secret things belong unto the LORD our God: but those thingswhich are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, thatwe may do all the words of this law.
30:1 And it shall come to pass, when all these things are come uponthee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before thee, andthou shalt call them to mind among all the nations, whither the LORDthy God hath driven thee, 
30:2 And shalt return unto the LORD thy God,and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee thisday, thou and thy children, with all thine heart, and with all thysoul; 
30:3 That then the LORD thy God will turn thy captivity, andhave compassion upon thee, and will return and gather thee from allthe nations, whither the LORD thy God hath scattered thee.
30:4 If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven,from thence will the LORD thy God gather thee, and from thence will hefetch thee: 
30:5 And the LORD thy God will bring thee into the landwhich thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will dothee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers.
30:6 And the LORD thy God will circumcise thine heart, and the heartof thy seed, to love the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and withall thy soul, that thou mayest live.
30:7 And the LORD thy God will put all these curses upon thineenemies, and on them that hate thee, which persecuted thee.
30:8 And thou shalt return and obey the voice of the LORD, and do allhis commandments which I command thee this day.
30:9 And the LORD thy God will make thee plenteous in every work ofthine hand, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle,and in the fruit of thy land, for good: for the LORD will againrejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers: 
30:10 Ifthou shalt hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep hiscommandments and his statutes which are written in this book of thelaw, and if thou turn unto the LORD thy God with all thine heart, andwith all thy soul.
30:11 For this commandment which I command thee this day, it is nothidden from thee, neither is it far off.
30:12 It is not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go upfor us to heaven, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and doit?  
30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldest say, Whoshall go over the sea for us, and bring it unto us, that we may hearit, and do it?  
30:14 But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thymouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.
30:15 See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and deathand evil; 
30:16 In that I command thee this day to love the LORD thyGod, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and hisstatutes and his judgments, that thou mayest live and multiply: andthe LORD thy God shall bless thee in the land whither thou goest topossess it.
30:17 But if thine heart turn away, so that thou wilt not hear, butshalt be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve them; 
30:18 Idenounce unto you this day, that ye shall surely perish, and that yeshall not prolong your days upon the land, whither thou passest overJordan to go to possess it.
30:19 I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that Ihave set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: thereforechoose life, that both thou and thy seed may live: 
30:20 That thoumayest love the LORD thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice, andthat thou mayest cleave unto him: for he is thy life, and the lengthof thy days: that thou mayest dwell in the land which the LORD swareunto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.
31:1 And Moses went and spake these words unto all Israel.
31:2 And he said unto them, I am an hundred and twenty years old thisday; I can no more go out and come in: also the LORD hath said untome, Thou shalt not go over this Jordan.
31:3 The LORD thy God, he will go over before thee, and he willdestroy these nations from before thee, and thou shalt possess them:and Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as the LORD hath said.
31:4 And the LORD shall do unto them as he did to Sihon and to Og,kings of the Amorites, and unto the land of them, whom he destroyed.
31:5 And the LORD shall give them up before your face, that ye may dounto them according unto all the commandments which I have commandedyou.
31:6 Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them:for the LORD thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will notfail thee, nor forsake thee.
31:7 And Moses called unto Joshua, and said unto him in the sight ofall Israel, Be strong and of a good courage: for thou must go withthis people unto the land which the LORD hath sworn unto their fathersto give them; and thou shalt cause them to inherit it.
31:8 And the LORD, he it is that doth go before thee; he will be withthee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear not, neitherbe dismayed.
31:9 And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it unto the priests thesons of Levi, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and untoall the elders of Israel.
31:10 And Moses commanded them, saying, At the end of every sevenyears, in the solemnity of the year of release, in the feast oftabernacles, 
31:11 When all Israel is come to appear before the LORDthy God in the place which he shall choose, thou shalt read this lawbefore all Israel in their hearing.
31:12 Gather the people together, men and women, and children, and thystranger that is within thy gates, that they may hear, and that theymay learn, and fear the LORD your God, and observe to do all the wordsof this law: 
31:13 And that their children, which have not known anything, may hear, and learn to fear the LORD your God, as long as yelive in the land whither ye go over Jordan to possess it.
31:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, thy days approach thatthou must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the tabernacleof the congregation, that I may give him a charge. And Moses andJoshua went, and presented themselves in the tabernacle of thecongregation.
31:15 And the LORD appeared in the tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud:and the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle.
31:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, thou shalt sleep with thyfathers; and this people will rise up, and go a whoring after the godsof the strangers of the land, whither they go to be among them, andwill forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them.
31:17 Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and Iwill forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shallbe devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them; so thatthey will say in that day, Are not these evils come upon us, becauseour God is not among us?  
31:18 And I will surely hide my face in thatday for all the evils which they shall have wrought, in that they areturned unto other gods.
31:19 Now therefore write ye this song for you, and teach it thechildren of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be awitness for me against the children of Israel.
31:20 For when I shall have brought them into the land which I swareunto their fathers, that floweth with milk and honey; and they shallhave eaten and filled themselves, and waxen fat; then will they turnunto other gods, and serve them, and provoke me, and break mycovenant.
31:21 And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles arebefallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness;for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for Iknow their imagination which they go about, even now, before I havebrought them into the land which I sware.
31:22 Moses therefore wrote this song the same day, and taught it thechildren of Israel.
31:23 And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, Be strongand of a good courage: for thou shalt bring the children of Israelinto the land which I sware unto them: and I will be with thee.
31:24 And it came to pass, when Moses had made an end of writing thewords of this law in a book, until they were finished, 
31:25 ThatMoses commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of theLORD, saying, 
31:26 Take this book of the law, and put it in the sideof the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, that it may be therefor a witness against thee.
31:27 For I know thy rebellion, and thy stiff neck: behold, while I amyet alive with you this day, ye have been rebellious against the LORD;and how much more after my death?  
31:28 Gather unto me all the eldersof your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words intheir ears, and call heaven and earth to record against them.
31:29 For I know that after my death ye will utterly corruptyourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you;and evil will befall you in the latter days; because ye will do evilin the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger through the work ofyour hands.
31:30 And Moses spake in the ears of all the congregation of Israelthe words of this song, until they were ended.
32:1 Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; and hear, O earth, thewords of my mouth.
32:2 My doctrine shall drop as the rain, my speech shall distil as thedew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers uponthe grass: 
32:3 Because I will publish the name of the LORD: ascribeye greatness unto our God.
32:4 He is the Rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways arejudgment: a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he.
32:5 They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not the spot of hischildren: they are a perverse and crooked generation.
32:6 Do ye thus requite the LORD, O foolish people and unwise? is nothe thy father that hath bought thee? hath he not made thee, andestablished thee?  
32:7 Remember the days of old, consider the yearsof many generations: ask thy father, and he will shew thee; thyelders, and they will tell thee.
32:8 When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, whenhe separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the peopleaccording to the number of the children of Israel.
32:9 For the LORD's portion is his people; Jacob is the lot of hisinheritance.
32:10 He found him in a desert land, and in the waste howlingwilderness; he led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as theapple of his eye.
32:11 As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young,spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings:
32:12 So the LORD alone did lead him, and there was no strange godwith him.
32:13 He made him ride on the high places of the earth, that he mighteat the increase of the fields; and he made him to suck honey out ofthe rock, and oil out of the flinty rock; 
32:14 Butter of kine, andmilk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, andgoats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat; and thou didst drink the pureblood of the grape.
32:15 But Jeshurun waxed fat, and kicked: thou art waxen fat, thou artgrown thick, thou art covered with fatness; then he forsook God whichmade him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.
32:16 They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, withabominations provoked they him to anger.
32:17 They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to gods whom they knewnot, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not.
32:18 Of the Rock that begat thee thou art unmindful, and hastforgotten God that formed thee.
32:19 And when the LORD saw it, he abhorred them, because of theprovoking of his sons, and of his daughters.
32:20 And he said, I will hide my face from them, I will see whattheir end shall be: for they are a very froward generation, childrenin whom is no faith.
32:21 They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God; theyhave provoked me to anger with their vanities: and I will move them tojealousy with those which are not a people; I will provoke them toanger with a foolish nation.
32:22 For a fire is kindled in mine anger, and shall burn unto thelowest hell, and shall consume the earth with her increase, and set onfire the foundations of the mountains.
32:23 I will heap mischiefs upon them; I will spend mine arrows uponthem.
32:24 They shall be burnt with hunger, and devoured with burning heat,and with bitter destruction: I will also send the teeth of beasts uponthem, with the poison of serpents of the dust.
32:25 The sword without, and terror within, shall destroy both theyoung man and the virgin, the suckling also with the man of grayhairs.
32:26 I said, I would scatter them into corners, I would make theremembrance of them to cease from among men: 
32:27 Were it not that Ifeared the wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should behavethemselves strangely, and lest they should say, Our hand is high, andthe LORD hath not done all this.
32:28 For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there anyunderstanding in them.
32:29 O that they were wise, that they understood this, that theywould consider their latter end!  
32:30 How should one chase athousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock hadsold them, and the LORD had shut them up?  
32:31 For their rock is notas our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
32:32 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields ofGomorrah: their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter:
32:33 Their wine is the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom ofasps.
32:34 Is not this laid up in store with me, and sealed up among mytreasures?  
32:35 To me belongeth vengeance and recompence; their footshall slide in due time: for the day of their calamity is at hand, andthe things that shall come upon them make haste.
32:36 For the LORD shall judge his people, and repent himself for hisservants, when he seeth that their power is gone, and there is noneshut up, or left.
32:37 And he shall say, Where are their gods, their rock in whom theytrusted, 
32:38 Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drankthe wine of their drink offerings? let them rise up and help you, andbe your protection.
32:39 See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god with me: Ikill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal: neither is there any thatcan deliver out of my hand.
32:40 For I lift up my hand to heaven, and say, I live for ever.
32:41 If I whet my glittering sword, and mine hand take hold onjudgment; I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and will rewardthem that hate me.
32:42 I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shalldevour flesh; and that with the blood of the slain and of thecaptives, from the beginning of revenges upon the enemy.
32:43 Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people: for he will avenge theblood of his servants, and will render vengeance to his adversaries,and will be merciful unto his land, and to his people.
32:44 And Moses came and spake all the words of this song in the earsof the people, he, and Hoshea the son of Nun.
32:45 And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel:
32:46 And he said unto them, Set your hearts unto all the words whichI testify among you this day, which ye shall command your children toobserve to do, all the words of this law.
32:47 For it is not a vain thing for you; because it is your life: andthrough this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, whither yego over Jordan to possess it.
32:48 And the LORD spake unto Moses that selfsame day, saying, 
32:49 Get thee up into this mountain Abarim, unto mount Nebo, which is inthe land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and behold the land ofCanaan, which I give unto the children of Israel for a possession:
32:50 And die in the mount whither thou goest up, and be gathered untothy people; as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, and was gatheredunto his people: 
32:51 Because ye trespassed against me among thechildren of Israel at the waters of MeribahKadesh, in the wildernessof Zin; because ye sanctified me not in the midst of the children ofIsrael.
32:52 Yet thou shalt see the land before thee; but thou shalt not gothither unto the land which I give the children of Israel.
33:1 And this is the blessing, wherewith Moses the man of God blessedthe children of Israel before his death.
33:2 And he said, The LORD came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir untothem; he shined forth from mount Paran, and he came with ten thousandsof saints: from his right hand went a fiery law for them.
33:3 Yea, he loved the people; all his saints are in thy hand: andthey sat down at thy feet; every one shall receive of thy words.
33:4 Moses commanded us a law, even the inheritance of thecongregation of Jacob.
33:5 And he was king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people and thetribes of Israel were gathered together.
33:6 Let Reuben live, and not die; and let not his men be few.
33:7 And this is the blessing of Judah: and he said, Hear, LORD, thevoice of Judah, and bring him unto his people: let his hands besufficient for him; and be thou an help to him from his enemies.
33:8 And of Levi he said, Let thy Thummim and thy Urim be with thyholy one, whom thou didst prove at Massah, and with whom thou didststrive at the waters of Meribah; 
33:9 Who said unto his father and tohis mother, I have not seen him; neither did he acknowledge hisbrethren, nor knew his own children: for they have observed thy word,and kept thy covenant.
33:10 They shall teach Jacob thy judgments, and Israel thy law: theyshall put incense before thee, and whole burnt sacrifice upon thinealtar.
33:11 Bless, LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands;smite through the loins of them that rise against him, and of themthat hate him, that they rise not again.
33:12 And of Benjamin he said, The beloved of the LORD shall dwell insafety by him; and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and heshall dwell between his shoulders.
33:13 And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the LORD be his land, for theprecious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that couchethbeneath, 
33:14 And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun,and for the precious things put forth by the moon, 
33:15 And for thechief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things ofthe lasting hills, 
33:16 And for the precious things of the earth andfulness thereof, and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush:let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of thehead of him that was separated from his brethren.
33:17 His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his hornsare like the horns of unicorns: with them he shall push the peopletogether to the ends of the earth: and they are the ten thousands ofEphraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.
33:18 And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out; and,Issachar, in thy tents.
33:19 They shall call the people unto the mountain; there they shalloffer sacrifices of righteousness: for they shall suck of theabundance of the seas, and of treasures hid in the sand.
33:20 And of Gad he said, Blessed be he that enlargeth Gad: hedwelleth as a lion, and teareth the arm with the crown of the head.
33:21 And he provided the first part for himself, because there, in aportion of the lawgiver, was he seated; and he came with the heads ofthe people, he executed the justice of the LORD, and his judgmentswith Israel.
33:22 And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp: he shall leap fromBashan.
33:23 And of Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favour, andfull with the blessing of the LORD: possess thou the west and thesouth.
33:24 And of Asher he said, Let Asher be blessed with children; lethim be acceptable to his brethren, and let him dip his foot in oil.
33:25 Thy shoes shall be iron and brass; and as thy days, so shall thystrength be.
33:26 There is none like unto the God of Jeshurun, who rideth upon theheaven in thy help, and in his excellency on the sky.
33:27 The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are theeverlasting arms: and he shall thrust out the enemy from before thee;and shall say, Destroy them.
33:28 Israel then shall dwell in safety alone: the fountain of Jacobshall be upon a land of corn and wine; also his heavens shall dropdown dew.
33:29 Happy art thou, O Israel: who is like unto thee, O people savedby the LORD, the shield of thy help, and who is the sword of thyexcellency! and thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee; and thoushalt tread upon their high places.
34:1 And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain ofNebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Jericho. And the LORDshewed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan, 
34:2 And all Naphtali,and the land of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, untothe utmost sea, 
34:3 And the south, and the plain of the valley ofJericho, the city of palm trees, unto Zoar.
34:4 And the LORD said unto him, This is the land which I sware untoAbraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I will give it unto thyseed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt notgo over thither.
34:5 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab,according to the word of the LORD.
34:6 And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over againstBethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.
34:7 And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old when he died: hiseye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.
34:8 And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moabthirty days: so the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended.
34:9 And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; forMoses had laid his hands upon him: and the children of Israelhearkened unto him, and did as the LORD commanded Moses.
34:10 And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses,whom the LORD knew face to face, 
34:11 In all the signs and thewonders, which the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt toPharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land, 
34:12 And inall that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses shewedin the sight of all Israel.