1:1 The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests thatwere in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin: 
1:2 To whom the word of theLORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, in thethirteenth year of his reign.
1:3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king ofJudah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiahking of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in thefifth month.
1:4 Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
1:5 Before Iformed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth outof the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto thenations.
1:6 Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, I cannot speak: for I am achild.
1:7 But the LORD said unto me, Say not, I am a child: for thou shaltgo to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thoushalt speak.
1:8 Be not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee to deliver thee,saith the LORD.
1:9 Then the LORD put forth his hand, and touched my mouth. And theLORD said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth.
1:10 See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over thekingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throwdown, to build, and to plant.
1:11 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, Jeremiah,what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree.
1:12 Then said the LORD unto me, Thou hast well seen: for I willhasten my word to perform it.
1:13 And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying,What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething pot; and the facethereof is toward the north.
1:14 Then the LORD said unto me, Out of the north an evil shall breakforth upon all the inhabitants of the land.
1:15 For, lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of thenorth, saith the LORD; and they shall come, and they shall set everyone his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and againstall the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities ofJudah.
1:16 And I will utter my judgments against them touching all theirwickedness, who have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto othergods, and worshipped the works of their own hands.
1:17 Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto themall that I command thee: be not dismayed at their faces, lest Iconfound thee before them.
1:18 For, behold, I have made thee this day a defenced city, and aniron pillar, and brasen walls against the whole land, against thekings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the prieststhereof, and against the people of the land.
1:19 And they shall fight against thee; but they shall not prevailagainst thee; for I am with thee, saith the LORD, to deliver thee.
2:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 
2:2 Go and cryin the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; I rememberthee, the kindness of thy youth, the love of thine espousals, whenthou wentest after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown.
2:3 Israel was holiness unto the LORD, and the firstfruits of hisincrease: all that devour him shall offend; evil shall come upon them,saith the LORD.
2:4 Hear ye the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all thefamilies of the house of Israel: 
2:5 Thus saith the LORD, Whatiniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far fromme, and have walked after vanity, and are become vain?  
2:6 Neithersaid they, Where is the LORD that brought us up out of the land ofEgypt, that led us through the wilderness, through a land of desertsand of pits, through a land of drought, and of the shadow of death,through a land that no man passed through, and where no man dwelt?
2:7 And I brought you into a plentiful country, to eat the fruitthereof and the goodness thereof; but when ye entered, ye defiled myland, and made mine heritage an abomination.
2:8 The priests said not, Where is the LORD? and they that handle thelaw knew me not: the pastors also transgressed against me, and theprophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after things that do notprofit.
2:9 Wherefore I will yet plead with you, saith the LORD, and with yourchildren's children will I plead.
2:10 For pass over the isles of Chittim, and see; and send unto Kedar,and consider diligently, and see if there be such a thing.
2:11 Hath a nation changed their gods, which are yet no gods? but mypeople have changed their glory for that which doth not profit.
2:12 Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this, and be horribly afraid, beye very desolate, saith the LORD.
2:13 For my people have committed two evils; they have forsaken me thefountain of living waters, and hewed them out cisterns, brokencisterns, that can hold no water.
2:14 Is Israel a servant? is he a homeborn slave? why is he spoiled?
2:15 The young lions roared upon him, and yelled, and they made hisland waste: his cities are burned without inhabitant.
2:16 Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes have broken the crown ofthy head.
2:17 Hast thou not procured this unto thyself, in that thou hastforsaken the LORD thy God, when he led thee by the way?  
2:18 And nowwhat hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters ofSihor? or what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink thewaters of the river?  
2:19 Thine own wickedness shall correct thee,and thy backslidings shall reprove thee: know therefore and see thatit is an evil thing and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the LORD thyGod, and that my fear is not in thee, saith the Lord GOD of hosts.
2:20 For of old time I have broken thy yoke, and burst thy bands; andthou saidst, I will not transgress; when upon every high hill andunder every green tree thou wanderest, playing the harlot.
2:21 Yet I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right seed: howthen art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine untome?  
2:22 For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee muchsoap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord GOD.
2:23 How canst thou say, I am not polluted, I have not gone afterBaalim?  see thy way in the valley, know what thou hast done: thou arta swift dromedary traversing her ways; 
2:24 A wild ass used to thewilderness, that snuffeth up the wind at her pleasure; in her occasionwho can turn her away? all they that seek her will not wearythemselves; in her month they shall find her.
2:25 Withhold thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from thirst:but thou saidst, There is no hope: no; for I have loved strangers, andafter them will I go.
2:26 As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house ofIsrael ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their priests,and their prophets.
2:27 Saying to a stock, Thou art my father; and to a stone, Thou hastbrought me forth: for they have turned their back unto me, and nottheir face: but in the time of their trouble they will say, Arise, andsave us.
2:28 But where are thy gods that thou hast made thee? let them arise,if they can save thee in the time of thy trouble: for according to thenumber of thy cities are thy gods, O Judah.
2:29 Wherefore will ye plead with me? ye all have transgressed againstme, saith the LORD.
2:30 In vain have I smitten your children; they received nocorrection: your own sword hath devoured your prophets, like adestroying lion.
2:31 O generation, see ye the word of the LORD. Have I been awilderness unto Israel? a land of darkness? wherefore say my people,We are lords; we will come no more unto thee?  
2:32 Can a maid forgether ornaments, or a bride her attire? yet my people have forgotten medays without number.
2:33 Why trimmest thou thy way to seek love? therefore hast thou alsotaught the wicked ones thy ways.
2:34 Also in thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the poorinnocents: I have not found it by secret search, but upon all these.
2:35 Yet thou sayest, Because I am innocent, surely his anger shallturn from me. Behold, I will plead with thee, because thou sayest, Ihave not sinned.
2:36 Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way? thou also shaltbe ashamed of Egypt, as thou wast ashamed of Assyria.
2:37 Yea, thou shalt go forth from him, and thine hands upon thinehead: for the LORD hath rejected thy confidences, and thou shalt notprosper in them.
3:1 They say, If a man put away his wife, and she go from him, andbecome another man's, shall he return unto her again? shall not thatland be greatly polluted? but thou hast played the harlot with manylovers; yet return again to me, saith the LORD.
3:2 Lift up thine eyes unto the high places, and see where thou hastnot been lien with. In the ways hast thou sat for them, as the Arabianin the wilderness; and thou hast polluted the land with thy whoredomsand with thy wickedness.
3:3 Therefore the showers have been withholden, and there hath been nolatter rain; and thou hadst a whore's forehead, thou refusedst to beashamed.
3:4 Wilt thou not from this time cry unto me, My father, thou art theguide of my youth?  
3:5 Will he reserve his anger for ever? will hekeep it to the end?  Behold, thou hast spoken and done evil things asthou couldest.
3:6 The LORD said also unto me in the days of Josiah the king, Hastthou seen that which backsliding Israel hath done? she is gone up uponevery high mountain and under every green tree, and there hath playedthe harlot.
3:7 And I said after she had done all these things, Turn thou unto me.But she returned not. And her treacherous sister Judah saw it.
3:8 And I saw, when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israelcommitted adultery I had put her away, and given her a bill ofdivorce; yet her treacherous sister Judah feared not, but went andplayed the harlot also.
3:9 And it came to pass through the lightness of her whoredom, thatshe defiled the land, and committed adultery with stones and withstocks.
3:10 And yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah hath not turnedunto me with her whole heart, but feignedly, saith the LORD.
3:11 And the LORD said unto me, The backsliding Israel hath justifiedherself more than treacherous Judah.
3:12 Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return,thou backsliding Israel, saith the LORD; and I will not cause mineanger to fall upon you: for I am merciful, saith the LORD, and I willnot keep anger for ever.
3:13 Only acknowledge thine iniquity, that thou hast transgressedagainst the LORD thy God, and hast scattered thy ways to the strangersunder every green tree, and ye have not obeyed my voice, saith theLORD.
3:14 Turn, O backsliding children, saith the LORD; for I am marriedunto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, andI will bring you to Zion: 
3:15 And I will give you pastors accordingto mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.
3:16 And it shall come to pass, when ye be multiplied and increased inthe land, in those days, saith the LORD, they shall say no more, Theark of the covenant of the LORD: neither shall it come to mind:neither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neithershall that be done any more.
3:17 At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the LORD;and all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of theLORD, to Jerusalem: neither shall they walk any more after theimagination of their evil heart.
3:18 In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house ofIsrael, and they shall come together out of the land of the north tothe land that I have given for an inheritance unto your fathers.
3:19 But I said, How shall I put thee among the children, and givethee a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the hosts of nations? and Isaid, Thou shalt call me, My father; and shalt not turn away from me.
3:20 Surely as a wife treacherously departeth from her husband, sohave ye dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel, saith theLORD.
3:21 A voice was heard upon the high places, weeping and supplicationsof the children of Israel: for they have perverted their way, and theyhave forgotten the LORD their God.
3:22 Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal yourbackslidings.Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the LORD our God.
3:23 Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the hills, and from themultitude of mountains: truly in the LORD our God is the salvation ofIsrael.
3:24 For shame hath devoured the labour of our fathers from our youth;their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.
3:25 We lie down in our shame, and our confusion covereth us: for wehave sinned against the LORD our God, we and our fathers, from ouryouth even unto this day, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORDour God.
4:1 If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith the LORD, return unto me: andif thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight, then shaltthou not remove.
4:2 And thou shalt swear, The LORD liveth, in truth, in judgment, andin righteousness; and the nations shall bless themselves in him, andin him shall they glory.
4:3 For thus saith the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Breakup your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.
4:4 Circumcise yourselves to the LORD, and take away the foreskins ofyour heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: lest my furycome forth like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of theevil of your doings.
4:5 Declare ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, Blow yethe trumpet in the land: cry, gather together, and say, Assembleyourselves, and let us go into the defenced cities.
4:6 Set up the standard toward Zion: retire, stay not: for I willbring evil from the north, and a great destruction.
4:7 The lion is come up from his thicket, and the destroyer of theGentiles is on his way; he is gone forth from his place to make thyland desolate; and thy cities shall be laid waste, without aninhabitant.
4:8 For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and howl: for the fierceanger of the LORD is not turned back from us.
4:9 And it shall come to pass at that day, saith the LORD, that theheart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and thepriests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.
4:10 Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! surely thou hast greatly deceived thispeople and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas the swordreacheth unto the soul.
4:11 At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, Adry wind of the high places in the wilderness toward the daughter ofmy people, not to fan, nor to cleanse, 
4:12 Even a full wind fromthose places shall come unto me: now also will I give sentence againstthem.
4:13 Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be asa whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for weare spoiled.
4:14 O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayestbe saved. How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee?  
4:15 For a voice declareth from Dan, and publisheth affliction from mountEphraim.
4:16 Make ye mention to the nations; behold, publish againstJerusalem, that watchers come from a far country, and give out theirvoice against the cities of Judah.
4:17 As keepers of a field, are they against her round about; becauseshe hath been rebellious against me, saith the LORD.
4:18 Thy way and thy doings have procured these things unto thee; thisis thy wickedness, because it is bitter, because it reacheth untothine heart.
4:19 My bowels, my bowels! I am pained at my very heart; my heartmaketh a noise in me; I cannot hold my peace, because thou hast heard,O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
4:20 Destruction upon destruction is cried; for the whole land isspoiled: suddenly are my tents spoiled, and my curtains in a moment.
4:21 How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of thetrumpet?  
4:22 For my people is foolish, they have not known me; theyare sottish children, and they have none understanding: they are wiseto do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.
4:23 I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was without form, and void; andthe heavens, and they had no light.
4:24 I beheld the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hillsmoved lightly.
4:25 I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of theheavens were fled.
4:26 I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and allthe cities thereof were broken down at the presence of the LORD, andby his fierce anger.
4:27 For thus hath the LORD said, The whole land shall be desolate;yet will I not make a full end.
4:28 For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black;because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will not repent,neither will I turn back from it.
4:29 The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen andbowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the rocks:every city shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.
4:30 And when thou art spoiled, what wilt thou do? Though thouclothest thyself with crimson, though thou deckest thee with ornamentsof gold, though thou rentest thy face with painting, in vain shaltthou make thyself fair; thy lovers will despise thee, they will seekthy life.
4:31 For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, and theanguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice ofthe daughter of Zion, that bewaileth herself, that spreadeth herhands, saying, Woe is me now! for my soul is wearied because ofmurderers.
5:1 Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now,and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man,if there be any that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and Iwill pardon it.
5:2 And though they say, The LORD liveth; surely they swear falsely.
5:3 O LORD, are not thine eyes upon the truth? thou hast strickenthem, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, but theyhave refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harderthan a rock; they have refused to return.
5:4 Therefore I said, Surely these are poor; they are foolish: forthey know not the way of the LORD, nor the judgment of their God.
5:5 I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; forthey have known the way of the LORD, and the judgment of their God:but these have altogether broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.
5:6 Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf ofthe evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over theircities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces:because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings areincreased.
5:7 How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken me,and sworn by them that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full,they then committed adultery, and assembled themselves by troops inthe harlots' houses.
5:8 They were as fed horses in the morning: every one neighed afterhis neighbour's wife.
5:9 Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: and shall notmy soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
5:10 Go ye up upon herwalls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away herbattlements; for they are not the LORD's.
5:11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt verytreacherously against me, saith the LORD.
5:12 They have belied the LORD, and said, It is not he; neither shallevil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine: 
5:13 And theprophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall itbe done unto them.
5:14 Wherefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, Because ye speak thisword, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and this peoplewood, and it shall devour them.
5:15 Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel,saith the LORD: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient nation, anation whose language thou knowest not, neither understandest whatthey say.
5:16 Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all mighty men.
5:17 And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, which thysons and thy daughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks andthine herds: they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shallimpoverish thy fenced cities, wherein thou trustedst, with the sword.
5:18 Nevertheless in those days, saith the LORD, I will not make afull end with you.
5:19 And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth theLORD our God all these things unto us? then shalt thou answer them,Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strange gods in your land, soshall ye serve strangers in a land that is not your's.
5:20 Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah,saying, 
5:21 Hear now this, O foolish people, and withoutunderstanding; which have eyes, and see not; which have ears, and hearnot: 
5:22 Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will ye not tremble at mypresence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by aperpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereoftoss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet canthey not pass over it?  
5:23 But this people hath a revolting and arebellious heart; they are revolted and gone.
5:24 Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the LORD ourGod, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season:he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest.
5:25 Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins havewithholden good things from you.
5:26 For among my people are found wicked men: they lay wait, as hethat setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men.
5:27 As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit:therefore they are become great, and waxen rich.
5:28 They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds ofthe wicked: they judge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yetthey prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge.
5:29 Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: shall not mysoul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
5:30 A wonderful andhorrible thing is committed in the land; 
5:31 The prophets prophesyfalsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people loveto have it so: and what will ye do in the end thereof?  
6:1 O yechildren of Benjamin, gather yourselves to flee out of the midst ofJerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a sign of fire inBethhaccerem: for evil appeareth out of the north, and greatdestruction.
6:2 I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and delicatewoman.
6:3 The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shallpitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed every onein his place.
6:4 Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woeunto us! for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening arestretched out.
6:5 Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces.
6:6 For thus hath the LORD of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and casta mount against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she iswholly oppression in the midst of her.
6:7 As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out herwickedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me continuallyis grief and wounds.
6:8 Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee;lest I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited.
6:9 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall throughly glean theremnant of Israel as a vine: turn back thine hand as a grapegathererinto the baskets.
6:10 To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear?behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold,the word of the LORD is unto them a reproach; they have no delight init.
6:11 Therefore I am full of the fury of the LORD; I am weary withholding in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon theassembly of young men together: for even the husband with the wifeshall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days.
6:12 And their houses shall be turned unto others, with their fieldsand wives together: for I will stretch out my hand upon theinhabitants of the land, saith the LORD.
6:13 For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them everyone is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto thepriest every one dealeth falsely.
6:14 They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of my peopleslightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.
6:15 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, theywere not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore theyshall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them theyshall be cast down, saith the LORD.
6:16 Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask forthe old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shallfind rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein.
6:17 Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of thetrumpet. But they said, We will not hearken.
6:18 Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what isamong them.
6:19 Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, eventhe fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto mywords, nor to my law, but rejected it.
6:20 To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and thesweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings are notacceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me.
6:21 Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocksbefore this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall fallupon them; the neighbour and his friend shall perish.
6:22 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, a people cometh from the northcountry, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of theearth.
6:23 They shall lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have nomercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses,set in array as men for war against thee, O daughter of Zion.
6:24 We have heard the fame thereof: our hands wax feeble: anguishhath taken hold of us, and pain, as of a woman in travail.
6:25 Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the swordof the enemy and fear is on every side.
6:26 O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallowthyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitterlamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us.
6:27 I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my people, thatthou mayest know and try their way.
6:28 They are all grievous revolters, walking with slanders: they arebrass and iron; they are all corrupters.
6:29 The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed of the fire; thefounder melteth in vain: for the wicked are not plucked away.
6:30 Reprobate silver shall men call them, because the LORD hathrejected them.
7:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 
7:2 Stand inthe gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say,Hear the word of the LORD, all ye of Judah, that enter in at thesegates to worship the LORD.
7:3 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your waysand your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place.
7:4 Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the LORD, Thetemple of the LORD, The temple of the LORD, are these.
7:5 For if ye throughly amend your ways and your doings; if yethroughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbour; 
7:6 If yeoppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and shed notinnocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to yourhurt: 
7:7 Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the landthat I gave to your fathers, for ever and ever.
7:8 Behold, ye trust in lying words, that cannot profit.
7:9 Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, andburn incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not;
7:10 And come and stand before me in this house, which is called by myname, and say, We are delivered to do all these abominations?  
7:11 Isthis house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers inyour eyes? Behold, even I have seen it, saith the LORD.
7:12 But go ye now unto my place which was in Shiloh, where I set myname at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of mypeople Israel.
7:13 And now, because ye have done all these works, saith the LORD,and I spake unto you, rising up early and speaking, but ye heard not;and I called you, but ye answered not; 
7:14 Therefore will I do untothis house, which is called by my name, wherein ye trust, and unto theplace which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I have done toShiloh.
7:15 And I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all yourbrethren, even the whole seed of Ephraim.
7:16 Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up cry norprayer for them, neither make intercession to me: for I will not hearthee.
7:17 Seest thou not what they do in the cities of Judah and in thestreets of Jerusalem?  
7:18 The children gather wood, and the fatherskindle the fire, and the women knead their dough, to make cakes to thequeen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods, thatthey may provoke me to anger.
7:19 Do they provoke me to anger? saith the LORD: do they not provokethemselves to the confusion of their own faces?  
7:20 Therefore thussaith the Lord GOD; Behold, mine anger and my fury shall be poured outupon this place, upon man, and upon beast, and upon the trees of thefield, and upon the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shallnot be quenched.
7:21 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Put your burntofferings unto your sacrifices, and eat flesh.
7:22 For I spake not unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the daythat I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burntofferings or sacrifices: 
7:23 But this thing commanded I them, saying,Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: andwalk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be wellunto you.
7:24 But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in thecounsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and wentbackward, and not forward.
7:25 Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land ofEgypt unto this day I have even sent unto you all my servants theprophets, daily rising up early and sending them: 
7:26 Yet theyhearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened theirneck: they did worse than their fathers.
7:27 Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them; but theywill not hearken to thee: thou shalt also call unto them; but theywill not answer thee.
7:28 But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth notthe voice of the LORD their God, nor receiveth correction: truth isperished, and is cut off from their mouth.
7:29 Cut off thine hair, O Jerusalem, and cast it away, and take up alamentation on high places; for the LORD hath rejected and forsakenthe generation of his wrath.
7:30 For the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith theLORD: they have set their abominations in the house which is called bymy name, to pollute it.
7:31 And they have built the high places of Tophet, which is in thevalley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters inthe fire; which I commanded them not, neither came it into my heart.
7:32 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shallno more be called Tophet, nor the valley of the son of Hinnom, but thevalley of slaughter: for they shall bury in Tophet, till there be noplace.
7:33 And the carcases of this people shall be meat for the fowls ofthe heaven, and for the beasts of the earth; and none shall fray themaway.
7:34 Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from thestreets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness,the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride: for the landshall be desolate.
8:1 At that time, saith the LORD, they shall bring out the bones ofthe kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of thepriests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of theinhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves: 
8:2 And they shallspread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the host of heaven,whom they have loved, and whom they have served, and after whom theyhave walked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped:they shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung uponthe face of the earth.
8:3 And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue ofthem that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the placeswhither I have driven them, saith the LORD of hosts.
8:4 Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; Shall theyfall, and not arise? shall he turn away, and not return?  
8:5 Why thenis this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding?they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return.
8:6 I hearkened and heard, but they spake not aright: no man repentedhim of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turned tohis course, as the horse rusheth into the battle.
8:7 Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times; and theturtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming;but my people know not the judgment of the LORD.
8:8 How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us?Lo, certainly in vain made he it; the pen of the scribes is in vain.
8:9 The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, theyhave rejected the word of the LORD; and what wisdom is in them?  
8:10 Therefore will I give their wives unto others, and their fields tothem that shall inherit them: for every one from the least even untothe greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto thepriest every one dealeth falsely.
8:11 For they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my peopleslightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.
8:12 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, theywere not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shallthey fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation theyshall be cast down, saith the LORD.
8:13 I will surely consume them, saith the LORD: there shall be nograpes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade;and the things that I have given them shall pass away from them.
8:14 Why do we sit still? assemble yourselves, and let us enter intothe defenced cities, and let us be silent there: for the LORD our Godhath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, becausewe have sinned against the LORD.
8:15 We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of health,and behold trouble!  
8:16 The snorting of his horses was heard fromDan: the whole land trembled at the sound of the neighing of hisstrong ones; for they are come, and have devoured the land, and allthat is in it; the city, and those that dwell therein.
8:17 For, behold, I will send serpents, cockatrices, among you, whichwill not be charmed, and they shall bite you, saith the LORD.
8:18 When I would comfort myself against sorrow, my heart is faint inme.
8:19 Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people becauseof them that dwell in a far country: Is not the LORD in Zion? is nother king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their gravenimages, and with strange vanities?  
8:20 The harvest is past, thesummer is ended, and we are not saved.
8:21 For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; I am black;astonishment hath taken hold on me.
8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead; is there no physician there? why thenis not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?  
9:1 Oh thatmy head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I mightweep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!  
9:2 Ohthat I had in the wilderness a lodging place of wayfaring men; that Imight leave my people, and go from them! for they be all adulterers,an assembly of treacherous men.
9:3 And they bend their tongues like their bow for lies: but they arenot valiant for the truth upon the earth; for they proceed from evilto evil, and they know not me, saith the LORD.
9:4 Take ye heed every one of his neighbour, and trust ye not in anybrother: for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbourwill walk with slanders.
9:5 And they will deceive every one his neighbour, and will not speakthe truth: they have taught their tongue to speak lies, and wearythemselves to commit iniquity.
9:6 Thine habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit theyrefuse to know me, saith the LORD.
9:7 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will melt them,and try them; for how shall I do for the daughter of my people?  
9:8 Their tongue is as an arrow shot out; it speaketh deceit: one speakethpeaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in heart he layeth hiswait.
9:9 Shall I not visit them for these things? saith the LORD: shall notmy soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
9:10 For the mountainswill I take up a weeping and wailing, and for the habitations of thewilderness a lamentation, because they are burned up, so that none canpass through them; neither can men hear the voice of the cattle; boththe fowl of the heavens and the beast are fled; they are gone.
9:11 And I will make Jerusalem heaps, and a den of dragons; and I willmake the cities of Judah desolate, without an inhabitant.
9:12 Who is the wise man, that may understand this? and who is he towhom the mouth of the LORD hath spoken, that he may declare it, forwhat the land perisheth and is burned up like a wilderness, that nonepasseth through?  
9:13 And the LORD saith, Because they have forsakenmy law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neitherwalked therein; 
9:14 But have walked after the imagination of theirown heart, and after Baalim, which their fathers taught them: 
9:15 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, Iwill feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them waterof gall to drink.
9:16 I will scatter them also among the heathen, whom neither they northeir fathers have known: and I will send a sword after them, till Ihave consumed them.
9:17 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Consider ye, and call for themourning women, that they may come; and send for cunning women, thatthey may come: 
9:18 And let them make haste, and take up a wailing forus, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush outwith waters.
9:19 For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we spoiled!we are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the land, becauseour dwellings have cast us out.
9:20 Yet hear the word of the LORD, O ye women, and let your earreceive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters wailing, andevery one her neighbour lamentation.
9:21 For death is come up into our windows, and is entered into ourpalaces, to cut off the children from without, and the young men fromthe streets.
9:22 Speak, Thus saith the LORD, Even the carcases of men shall fallas dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestman,and none shall gather them.
9:23 Thus saith the LORD, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom,neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich manglory in his riches: 
9:24 But let him that glorieth glory in this,that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the LORD whichexercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth:for in these things I delight, saith the LORD.
9:25 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will punish allthem which are circumcised with the uncircumcised; 
9:26 Egypt, andJudah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that arein the utmost corners, that dwell in the wilderness: for all thesenations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel areuncircumcised in the heart.
10:1 Hear ye the word which the LORD speaketh unto you, O house ofIsrael: 
10:2 Thus saith the LORD, Learn not the way of the heathen,and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the heathen aredismayed at them.
10:3 For the customs of the people are vain: for one cutteth a treeout of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman, with the axe.
10:4 They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nailsand with hammers, that it move not.
10:5 They are upright as the palm tree, but speak not: they must needsbe borne, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them; for theycannot do evil, neither also is it in them to do good.
10:6 Forasmuch as there is none like unto thee, O LORD; thou artgreat, and thy name is great in might.
10:7 Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? for to thee doth itappertain: forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations, and inall their kingdoms, there is none like unto thee.
10:8 But they are altogether brutish and foolish: the stock is adoctrine of vanities.
10:9 Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold fromUphaz, the work of the workman, and of the hands of the founder: blueand purple is their clothing: they are all the work of cunning men.
10:10 But the LORD is the true God, he is the living God, and aneverlasting king: at his wrath the earth shall tremble, and thenations shall not be able to abide his indignation.
10:11 Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made theheavens and the earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and fromunder these heavens.
10:12 He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established theworld by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heavens by hisdiscretion.
10:13 When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters inthe heavens, and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of theearth; he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth the wind outof his treasures.
10:14 Every man is brutish in his knowledge: every founder isconfounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, andthere is no breath in them.
10:15 They are vanity, and the work of errors: in the time of theirvisitation they shall perish.
10:16 The portion of Jacob is not like them: for he is the former ofall things; and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: The LORD ofhosts is his name.
10:17 Gather up thy wares out of the land, O inhabitant of thefortress.
10:18 For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will sling out theinhabitants of the land at this once, and will distress them, thatthey may find it so.
10:19 Woe is me for my hurt! my wound is grievous; but I said, Trulythis is a grief, and I must bear it.
10:20 My tabernacle is spoiled, and all my cords are broken: mychildren are gone forth of me, and they are not: there is none tostretch forth my tent any more, and to set up my curtains.
10:21 For the pastors are become brutish, and have not sought theLORD: therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall bescattered.
10:22 Behold, the noise of the bruit is come, and a great commotionout of the north country, to make the cities of Judah desolate, and aden of dragons.
10:23 O LORD, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is notin man that walketh to direct his steps.
10:24 O LORD, correct me, but with judgment; not in thine anger, lestthou bring me to nothing.
10:25 Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not, and uponthe families that call not on thy name: for they have eaten up Jacob,and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habitationdesolate.
11:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD saying, 
11:2 Hear yethe words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and tothe inhabitants of Jerusalem; 
11:3 And say thou unto them, Thus saiththe LORD God of Israel; Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the wordsof this covenant, 
11:4 Which I commanded your fathers in the day thatI brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace,saying, Obey my voice, and do them, according to all which I commandyou: so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God: 
11:5 That I mayperform the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, to give them aland flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. Then answered I,and said, So be it, O LORD.
11:6 Then the LORD said unto me, Proclaim all these words in thecities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye thewords of this covenant, and do them.
11:7 For I earnestly protested unto your fathers in the day that Ibrought them up out of the land of Egypt, even unto this day, risingearly and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.
11:8 Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every onein the imagination of their evil heart: therefore I will bring uponthem all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do: butthey did them not.
11:9 And the LORD said unto me, A conspiracy is found among the men ofJudah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
11:10 They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers,which refused to hear my words; and they went after other gods toserve them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken mycovenant which I made with their fathers.
11:11 Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil uponthem, which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shallcry unto me, I will not hearken unto them.
11:12 Then shall the cities of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem go,and cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense: but they shall notsave them at all in the time of their trouble.
11:13 For according to the number of thy cities were thy gods, OJudah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have yeset up altars to that shameful thing, even altars to burn incense untoBaal.
11:14 Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up a cryor prayer for them: for I will not hear them in the time that they cryunto me for their trouble.
11:15 What hath my beloved to do in mine house, seeing she hathwrought lewdness with many, and the holy flesh is passed from thee?when thou doest evil, then thou rejoicest.
11:16 The LORD called thy name, A green olive tree, fair, and ofgoodly fruit: with the noise of a great tumult he hath kindled fireupon it, and the branches of it are broken.
11:17 For the LORD of hosts, that planted thee, hath pronounced evilagainst thee, for the evil of the house of Israel and of the house ofJudah, which they have done against themselves to provoke me to angerin offering incense unto Baal.
11:18 And the LORD hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it: thenthou shewedst me their doings.
11:19 But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter;and I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Letus destroy the tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him offfrom the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered.
11:20 But, O LORD of hosts, that judgest righteously, that triest thereins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto theehave I revealed my cause.
11:21 Therefore thus saith the LORD of the men of Anathoth, that seekthy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the LORD, that thou dienot by our hand: 
11:22 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold,I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sonsand their daughters shall die by famine: 
11:23 And there shall be noremnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, eventhe year of their visitation.
12:1 Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee: yet let metalk with thee of thy judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wickedprosper?  wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously?
12:2 Thou hast planted them, yea, they have taken root: they grow,yea, they bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and farfrom their reins.
12:3 But thou, O LORD, knowest me: thou hast seen me, and tried mineheart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, andprepare them for the day of slaughter.
12:4 How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of every fieldwither, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein? the beasts areconsumed, and the birds; because they said, He shall not see our lastend.
12:5 If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee,then how canst thou contend with horses? and if in the land of peace,wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do inthe swelling of Jordan?  
12:6 For even thy brethren, and the house ofthy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee; yea, theyhave called a multitude after thee: believe them not, though theyspeak fair words unto thee.
12:7 I have forsaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I havegiven the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.
12:8 Mine heritage is unto me as a lion in the forest; it crieth outagainst me: therefore have I hated it.
12:9 Mine heritage is unto me as a speckled bird, the birds roundabout are against her; come ye, assemble all the beasts of the field,come to devour.
12:10 Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden myportion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolatewilderness.
12:11 They have made it desolate, and being desolate it mourneth untome; the whole land is made desolate, because no man layeth it toheart.
12:12 The spoilers are come upon all high places through thewilderness: for the sword of the LORD shall devour from the one end ofthe land even to the other end of the land: no flesh shall have peace.
12:13 They have sown wheat, but shall reap thorns: they have putthemselves to pain, but shall not profit: and they shall be ashamed ofyour revenues because of the fierce anger of the LORD.
12:14 Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbours, that touchthe inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit;Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the houseof Judah from among them.
12:15 And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them out Iwill return, and have compassion on them, and will bring them again,every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.
12:16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn theways of my people, to swear by my name, The LORD liveth; as theytaught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built in themidst of my people.
12:17 But if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroythat nation, saith the LORD.
13:1 Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, andput it upon thy loins, and put it not in water.
13:2 So I got a girdle according to the word of the LORD, and put iton my loins.
13:3 And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying,
13:4 Take the girdle that thou hast got, which is upon thy loins, andarise, go to Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of the rock.
13:5 So I went, and hid it by Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.
13:6 And it came to pass after many days, that the LORD said unto me,Arise, go to Euphrates, and take the girdle from thence, which Icommanded thee to hide there.
13:7 Then I went to Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle fromthe place where I had hid it: and, behold, the girdle was marred, itwas profitable for nothing.
13:8 Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
13:9 Thus saiththe LORD, After this manner will I mar the pride of Judah, and thegreat pride of Jerusalem.
13:10 This evil people, which refuse to hear my words, which walk inthe imagination of their heart, and walk after other gods, to servethem, and to worship them, shall even be as this girdle, which is goodfor nothing.
13:11 For as the girdle cleaveth to the loins of a man, so have Icaused to cleave unto me the whole house of Israel and the whole houseof Judah, saith the LORD; that they might be unto me for a people, andfor a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would nothear.
13:12 Therefore thou shalt speak unto them this word; Thus saith theLORD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and theyshall say unto thee, Do we not certainly know that every bottle shallbe filled with wine?  
13:13 Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saiththe LORD, Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, eventhe kings that sit upon David's throne, and the priests, and theprophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.
13:14 And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers andthe sons together, saith the LORD: I will not pity, nor spare, norhave mercy, but destroy them.
13:15 Hear ye, and give ear; be not proud: for the LORD hath spoken.
13:16 Give glory to the LORD your God, before he cause darkness, andbefore your feet stumble upon the dark mountains, and, while ye lookfor light, he turn it into the shadow of death, and make it grossdarkness.
13:17 But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret placesfor your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down with tears,because the LORD's flock is carried away captive.
13:18 Say unto the king and to the queen, Humble yourselves, sit down:for your principalities shall come down, even the crown of your glory.
13:19 The cities of the south shall be shut up, and none shall openthem: Judah shall be carried away captive all of it, it shall bewholly carried away captive.
13:20 Lift up your eyes, and behold them that come from the north:where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?  
13:21 What wilt thou say when he shall punish thee? for thou hast taughtthem to be captains, and as chief over thee: shall not sorrows takethee, as a woman in travail?  
13:22 And if thou say in thine heart,Wherefore come these things upon me?  For the greatness of thineiniquity are thy skirts discovered, and thy heels made bare.
13:23 Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do evil.
13:24 Therefore will I scatter them as the stubble that passeth awayby the wind of the wilderness.
13:25 This is thy lot, the portion of thy measures from me, saith theLORD; because thou hast forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.
13:26 Therefore will I discover thy skirts upon thy face, that thyshame may appear.
13:27 I have seen thine adulteries, and thy neighings, the lewdness ofthy whoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woeunto thee, O Jerusalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall itonce be?  
14:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerningthe dearth.
14:2 Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish; they are blackunto the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.
14:3 And their nobles have sent their little ones to the waters: theycame to the pits, and found no water; they returned with their vesselsempty; they were ashamed and confounded, and covered their heads.
14:4 Because the ground is chapt, for there was no rain in the earth,the plowmen were ashamed, they covered their heads.
14:5 Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and forsook it, becausethere was no grass.
14:6 And the wild asses did stand in the high places, they snuffed upthe wind like dragons; their eyes did fail, because there was nograss.
14:7 O LORD, though our iniquities testify against us, do thou it forthy name's sake: for our backslidings are many; we have sinned againstthee.
14:8 O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble, whyshouldest thou be as a stranger in the land, and as a wayfaring manthat turneth aside to tarry for a night?  
14:9 Why shouldest thou beas a man astonied, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet thou, O LORD,art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not.
14:10 Thus saith the LORD unto this people, Thus have they loved towander, they have not refrained their feet, therefore the LORD dothnot accept them; he will now remember their iniquity, and visit theirsins.
14:11 Then said the LORD unto me, Pray not for this people for theirgood.
14:12 When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offerburnt offering and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I willconsume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
14:13 Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, the prophets say unto them,Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I willgive you assured peace in this place.
14:14 Then the LORD said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in myname: I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spakeunto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and divination, and athing of nought, and the deceit of their heart.
14:15 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets thatprophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword andfamine shall not be in this land; By sword and famine shall thoseprophets be consumed.
14:16 And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in thestreets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and theyshall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, northeir daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.
14:17 Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes rundown with tears night and day, and let them not cease: for the virgindaughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a verygrievous blow.
14:18 If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with thesword!  and if I enter into the city, then behold them that are sickwith famine!  yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into aland that they know not.
14:19 Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul lothed Zion? whyhast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? we looked forpeace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and beholdtrouble!  
14:20 We acknowledge, O LORD, our wickedness, and theiniquity of our fathers: for we have sinned against thee.
14:21 Do not abhor us, for thy name's sake, do not disgrace the throneof thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us.
14:22 Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can causerain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O LORD ourGod?  therefore we will wait upon thee: for thou hast made all thesethings.
15:1 Then said the LORD unto me, Though Moses and Samuel stood beforeme, yet my mind could not be toward this people: cast them out of mysight, and let them go forth.
15:2 And it shall come to pass, if they say unto thee, Whither shallwe go forth? then thou shalt tell them, Thus saith the LORD; Such asare for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword;and such as are for the famine, to the famine; and such as are for thecaptivity, to the captivity.
15:3 And I will appoint over them four kinds, saith the LORD: thesword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and the fowls of the heaven, andthe beasts of the earth, to devour and destroy.
15:4 And I will cause them to be removed into all kingdoms of theearth, because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for thatwhich he did in Jerusalem.
15:5 For who shall have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who shallbemoan thee? or who shall go aside to ask how thou doest?  
15:6 Thouhast forsaken me, saith the LORD, thou art gone backward: thereforewill I stretch out my hand against thee, and destroy thee; I am wearywith repenting.
15:7 And I will fan them with a fan in the gates of the land; I willbereave them of children, I will destroy my people since they returnnot from their ways.
15:8 Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas: Ihave brought upon them against the mother of the young men a spoilerat noonday: I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terrorsupon the city.
15:9 She that hath borne seven languisheth: she hath given up theghost; her sun is gone down while it was yet day: she hath beenashamed and confounded: and the residue of them will I deliver to thesword before their enemies, saith the LORD.
15:10 Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man of strifeand a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither lent onusury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet every one of them dothcurse me.
15:11 The LORD said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verilyI will cause the enemy to entreat thee well in the time of evil and inthe time of affliction.
15:12 Shall iron break the northern iron and the steel?  
15:13 Thysubstance and thy treasures will I give to the spoil without price,and that for all thy sins, even in all thy borders.
15:14 And I will make thee to pass with thine enemies into a landwhich thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, whichshall burn upon you.
15:15 O LORD, thou knowest: remember me, and visit me, and revenge meof my persecutors; take me not away in thy longsuffering: know thatfor thy sake I have suffered rebuke.
15:16 Thy words were found, and I did eat them; and thy word was untome the joy and rejoicing of mine heart: for I am called by thy name, OLORD God of hosts.
15:17 I sat not in the assembly of the mockers, nor rejoiced; I satalone because of thy hand: for thou hast filled me with indignation.
15:18 Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refusethto be healed? wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar, and as watersthat fail?  
15:19 Therefore thus saith the LORD, If thou return, thenwill I bring thee again, and thou shalt stand before me: and if thoutake forth the precious from the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth: letthem return unto thee; but return not thou unto them.
15:20 And I will make thee unto this people a fenced brasen wall: andthey shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail againstthee: for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith theLORD.
15:21 And I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and Iwill redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible.
16:1 The word of the LORD came also unto me, saying, 
16:2 Thou shaltnot take thee a wife, neither shalt thou have sons or daughters inthis place.
16:3 For thus saith the LORD concerning the sons and concerning thedaughters that are born in this place, and concerning their mothersthat bare them, and concerning their fathers that begat them in thisland; 
16:4 They shall die of grievous deaths; they shall not belamented; neither shall they be buried; but they shall be as dung uponthe face of the earth: and they shall be consumed by the sword, and byfamine; and their carcases shall be meat for the fowls of heaven, andfor the beasts of the earth.
16:5 For thus saith the LORD, Enter not into the house of mourning,neither go to lament nor bemoan them: for I have taken away my peacefrom this people, saith the LORD, even lovingkindness and mercies.
16:6 Both the great and the small shall die in this land: they shallnot be buried, neither shall men lament for them, nor cut themselves,nor make themselves bald for them: 
16:7 Neither shall men tearthemselves for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; neithershall men give them the cup of consolation to drink for their fatheror for their mother.
16:8 Thou shalt not also go into the house of feasting, to sit withthem to eat and to drink.
16:9 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, Iwill cause to cease out of this place in your eyes, and in your days,the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, the voice of thebridegroom, and the voice of the bride.
16:10 And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt shew this people allthese words, and they shall say unto thee, Wherefore hath the LORDpronounced all this great evil against us? or what is our iniquity? orwhat is our sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?
16:11 Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers haveforsaken me, saith the LORD, and have walked after other gods, andhave served them, and have worshipped them, and have forsaken me, andhave not kept my law; 
16:12 And ye have done worse than your fathers;for, behold, ye walk every one after the imagination of his evilheart, that they may not hearken unto me: 
16:13 Therefore will I castyou out of this land into a land that ye know not, neither ye nor yourfathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; where Iwill not shew you favour.
16:14 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shallno more be said, The LORD liveth, that brought up the children ofIsrael out of the land of Egypt; 
16:15 But, The LORD liveth, thatbrought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and fromall the lands whither he had driven them: and I will bring them againinto their land that I gave unto their fathers.
16:16 Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and theyshall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and theyshall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out ofthe holes of the rocks.
16:17 For mine eyes are upon all their ways: they are not hid from myface, neither is their iniquity hid from mine eyes.
16:18 And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double;because they have defiled my land, they have filled mine inheritancewith the carcases of their detestable and abominable things.
16:19 O LORD, my strength, and my fortress, and my refuge in the dayof affliction, the Gentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of theearth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity,and things wherein there is no profit.
16:20 Shall a man make gods unto himself, and they are no gods?  
16:21 Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I will causethem to know mine hand and my might; and they shall know that my nameis The LORD.
17:1 The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with thepoint of a diamond: it is graven upon the table of their heart, andupon the horns of your altars; 
17:2 Whilst their children remembertheir altars and their groves by the green trees upon the high hills.
17:3 O my mountain in the field, I will give thy substance and all thytreasures to the spoil, and thy high places for sin, throughout allthy borders.
17:4 And thou, even thyself, shalt discontinue from thine heritagethat I gave thee; and I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in theland which thou knowest not: for ye have kindled a fire in mine anger,which shall burn for ever.
17:5 Thus saith the LORD; Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, andmaketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD.
17:6 For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not seewhen good cometh; but shall inhabit the parched places in thewilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited.
17:7 Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope theLORD is.
17:8 For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and thatspreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heatcometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in theyear of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.
17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked:who can know it?  
17:10 I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins,even to give every man according to his ways, and according to thefruit of his doings.
17:11 As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not; so hethat getteth riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midstof his days, and at his end shall be a fool.
17:12 A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of oursanctuary.
17:13 O LORD, the hope of Israel, all that forsake thee shall beashamed, and they that depart from me shall be written in the earth,because they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.
17:14 Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall besaved: for thou art my praise.
17:15 Behold, they say unto me, Where is the word of the LORD? let itcome now.
17:16 As for me, I have not hastened from being a pastor to followthee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that whichcame out of my lips was right before thee.
17:17 Be not a terror unto me: thou art my hope in the day of evil.
17:18 Let them be confounded that persecute me, but let not me beconfounded: let them be dismayed, but let not me be dismayed: bringupon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.
17:19 Thus said the LORD unto me; Go and stand in the gate of thechildren of the people, whereby the kings of Judah come in, and by thewhich they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem; 
17:20 And sayunto them, Hear ye the word of the LORD, ye kings of Judah, and allJudah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by thesegates: 
17:21 Thus saith the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and bear noburden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;
17:22 Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbathday, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as Icommanded your fathers.
17:23 But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made theirneck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.
17:24 And it shall come to pass, if ye diligently hearken unto me,saith the LORD, to bring in no burden through the gates of this cityon the sabbath day, but hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;
17:25 Then shall there enter into the gates of this city kings andprinces sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and onhorses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitantsof Jerusalem: and this city shall remain for ever.
17:26 And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from theplaces about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from theplain, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burntofferings, and sacrifices, and meat offerings, and incense, andbringing sacrifices of praise, unto the house of the LORD.
17:27 But if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day,and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalemon the sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof,and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not bequenched.
18:1 The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 
18:2 Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause theeto hear my words.
18:3 Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he wrought awork on the wheels.
18:4 And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of thepotter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to thepotter to make it.
18:5 Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 
18:6 O house ofIsrael, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the LORD. Behold,as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O houseof Israel.
18:7 At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerninga kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it; 
18:8 Ifthat nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their evil, Iwill repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them.
18:9 And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, andconcerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it; 
18:10 If it do evil inmy sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good,wherewith I said I would benefit them.
18:11 Now therefore go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to theinhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I frameevil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye now everyone from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good.
18:12 And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk after our owndevices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart.
18:13 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ask ye now among the heathen, whohath heard such things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very horriblething.
18:14 Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rockof the field? or shall the cold flowing waters that come from anotherplace be forsaken?  
18:15 Because my people hath forgotten me, theyhave burned incense to vanity, and they have caused them to stumble intheir ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not castup; 
18:16 To make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing; everyone that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.
18:17 I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; Iwill shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of theircalamity.
18:18 Then said they, Come and let us devise devices against Jeremiah;for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from thewise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, and let us smite him withthe tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words.
18:19 Give heed to me, O LORD, and hearken to the voice of them thatcontend with me.
18:20 Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pitfor my soul. Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them,and to turn away thy wrath from them.
18:21 Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour outtheir blood by the force of the sword; and let their wives be bereavedof their children, and be widows; and let their men be put to death;let their young men be slain by the sword in battle.
18:22 Let a cry be heard from their houses, when thou shalt bring atroop suddenly upon them: for they have digged a pit to take me, andhid snares for my feet.
18:23 Yet, LORD, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me:forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight,but let them be overthrown before thee; deal thus with them in thetime of thine anger.
19:1 Thus saith the LORD, Go and get a potter's earthen bottle, andtake of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of thepriests; 
19:2 And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, whichis by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that Ishall tell thee, 
19:3 And say, Hear ye the word of the LORD, O kingsof Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem; Thus saith the LORD of hosts,the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, thewhich whosoever heareth, his ears shall tingle.
19:4 Because they have forsaken me, and have estranged this place, andhave burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor theirfathers have known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this placewith the blood of innocents; 
19:5 They have built also the high placesof Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto Baal,which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind:
19:6 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that this placeshall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom,but The valley of slaughter.
19:7 And I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in thisplace; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before theirenemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives: and theircarcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and forthe beasts of the earth.
19:8 And I will make this city desolate, and an hissing; every onethat passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all theplagues thereof.
19:9 And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and theflesh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh ofhis friend in the siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, andthey that seek their lives, shall straiten them.
19:10 Then shalt thou break the bottle in the sight of the men that gowith thee, 
19:11 And shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD ofhosts; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketha potter's vessel, that cannot be made whole again: and they shallbury them in Tophet, till there be no place to bury.
19:12 Thus will I do unto this place, saith the LORD, and to theinhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet: 
19:13 And thehouses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, shall bedefiled as the place of Tophet, because of all the houses upon whoseroofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven, and havepoured out drink offerings unto other gods.
19:14 Then came Jeremiah from Tophet, whither the LORD had sent him toprophesy; and he stood in the court of the LORD's house; and said toall the people, 
19:15 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all theevil that I have pronounced against it, because they have hardenedtheir necks, that they might not hear my words.
20:1 Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chiefgovernor in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah prophesiedthese things.
20:2 Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocksthat were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of theLORD.
20:3 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forthJeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah unto him, The LORD hathnot called thy name Pashur, but Magormissabib.
20:4 For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will make thee a terror tothyself, and to all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword oftheir enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it: and I will give allJudah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry themcaptive into Babylon, and shall slay them with the sword.
20:5 Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city, and allthe labours thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all thetreasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of theirenemies, which shall spoil them, and take them, and carry them toBabylon.
20:6 And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house shall go intocaptivity: and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die,and shalt be buried there, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thouhast prophesied lies.
20:7 O LORD, thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived; thou artstronger than I, and hast prevailed: I am in derision daily, every onemocketh me.
20:8 For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil;because the word of the LORD was made a reproach unto me, and aderision, daily.
20:9 Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any morein his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut upin my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.
20:10 For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report,say they, and we will report it. All my familiars watched for myhalting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevailagainst him, and we shall take our revenge on him.
20:11 But the LORD is with me as a mighty terrible one: therefore mypersecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall begreatly ashamed; for they shall not prosper: their everlastingconfusion shall never be forgotten.
20:12 But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest thereins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto theehave I opened my cause.
20:13 Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD: for he hath deliveredthe soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.
20:14 Cursed be the day wherein I was born: let not the day wherein mymother bare me be blessed.
20:15 Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, Aman child is born unto thee; making him very glad.
20:16 And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew, andrepented not: and let him hear the cry in the morning, and theshouting at noontide; 
20:17 Because he slew me not from the womb; orthat my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be alwaysgreat with me.
20:18 Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labour and sorrow,that my days should be consumed with shame?  
21:1 The word which cameunto Jeremiah from the LORD, when king Zedekiah sent unto him Pashurthe son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest,saying, 
21:2 Enquire, I pray thee, of the LORD for us; forNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon maketh war against us; if so be thatthe LORD will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, thathe may go up from us.
21:3 Then said Jeremiah unto them, Thus shall ye say to Zedekiah: 
21:4 Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Behold, I will turn back theweapons of war that are in your hands, wherewith ye fight against theking of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans, which besiege you withoutthe walls, and I will assemble them into the midst of this city.
21:5 And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand andwith a strong arm, even in anger, and in fury, and in great wrath.
21:6 And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man andbeast: they shall die of a great pestilence.
21:7 And afterward, saith the LORD, I will deliver Zedekiah king ofJudah, and his servants, and the people, and such as are left in thiscity from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, intothe hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of theirenemies, and into the hand of those that seek their life: and he shallsmite them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them,neither have pity, nor have mercy.
21:8 And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the LORD; Behold,I set before you the way of life, and the way of death.
21:9 He that abideth in this city shall die by the sword, and by thefamine, and by the pestilence: but he that goeth out, and falleth tothe Chaldeans that besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall beunto him for a prey.
21:10 For I have set my face against this city for evil, and not forgood, saith the LORD: it shall be given into the hand of the king ofBabylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
21:11 And touching the house of the king of Judah, say, Hear ye theword of the LORD; 
21:12 O house of David, thus saith the LORD; Executejudgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of thehand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn thatnone can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
21:13 Behold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and rockof the plain, saith the LORD; which say, Who shall come down againstus? or who shall enter into our habitations?  
21:14 But I will punishyou according to the fruit of your doings, saith the LORD: and I willkindle a fire in the forest thereof, and it shall devour all thingsround about it.
22:1 Thus saith the LORD; Go down to the house of the king of Judah,and speak there this word, 
22:2 And say, Hear the word of the LORD, Oking of Judah, that sittest upon the throne of David, thou, and thyservants, and thy people that enter in by these gates: 
22:3 Thus saiththe LORD; Execute ye judgment and righteousness, and deliver thespoiled out of the hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do noviolence to the stranger, the fatherless, nor the widow, neither shedinnocent blood in this place.
22:4 For if ye do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by thegates of this house kings sitting upon the throne of David, riding inchariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.
22:5 But if ye will not hear these words, I swear by myself, saith theLORD, that this house shall become a desolation.
22:6 For thus saith the LORD unto the king's house of Judah; Thou artGilead unto me, and the head of Lebanon: yet surely I will make thee awilderness, and cities which are not inhabited.
22:7 And I will prepare destroyers against thee, every one with hisweapons: and they shall cut down thy choice cedars, and cast them intothe fire.
22:8 And many nations shall pass by this city, and they shall sayevery man to his neighbour, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus untothis great city?  
22:9 Then they shall answer, Because they haveforsaken the covenant of the LORD their God, and worshipped othergods, and served them.
22:10 Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him: but weep sore forhim that goeth away: for he shall return no more, nor see his nativecountry.
22:11 For thus saith the LORD touching Shallum the son of Josiah kingof Judah, which reigned instead of Josiah his father, which went forthout of this place; He shall not return thither any more: 
22:12 But heshall die in the place whither they have led him captive, and shallsee this land no more.
22:13 Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and hischambers by wrong; that useth his neighbour's service without wages,and giveth him not for his work; 
22:14 That saith, I will build me awide house and large chambers, and cutteth him out windows; and it iscieled with cedar, and painted with vermilion.
22:15 Shalt thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar? did notthy father eat and drink, and do judgment and justice, and then it waswell with him?  
22:16 He judged the cause of the poor and needy; thenit was well with him: was not this to know me? saith the LORD.
22:17 But thine eyes and thine heart are not but for thy covetousness,and for to shed innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence,to do it.
22:18 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son ofJosiah king of Judah; They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah mybrother! or, Ah sister! they shall not lament for him, saying, Ahlord! or, Ah his glory!  
22:19 He shall be buried with the burial ofan ass, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.
22:20 Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in Bashan, andcry from the passages: for all thy lovers are destroyed.
22:21 I spake unto thee in thy prosperity; but thou saidst, I will nothear. This hath been thy manner from thy youth, that thou obeyedst notmy voice.
22:22 The wind shall eat up all thy pastors, and thy lovers shall gointo captivity: surely then shalt thou be ashamed and confounded forall thy wickedness.
22:23 O inhabitant of Lebanon, that makest thy nest in the cedars, howgracious shalt thou be when pangs come upon thee, the pain as of awoman in travail!  
22:24 As I live, saith the LORD, though Coniah theson of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, yetwould I pluck thee thence; 
22:25 And I will give thee into the hand ofthem that seek thy life, and into the hand of them whose face thoufearest, even into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, andinto the hand of the Chaldeans.
22:26 And I will cast thee out, and thy mother that bare thee, intoanother country, where ye were not born; and there shall ye die.
22:27 But to the land whereunto they desire to return, thither shallthey not return.
22:28 Is this man Coniah a despised broken idol? is he a vesselwherein is no pleasure? wherefore are they cast out, he and his seed,and are cast into a land which they know not?  
22:29 O earth, earth,earth, hear the word of the LORD.
22:30 Thus saith the LORD, Write ye this man childless, a man thatshall not prosper in his days: for no man of his seed shall prosper,sitting upon the throne of David, and ruling any more in Judah.
23:1 Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of mypasture! saith the LORD.
23:2 Therefore thus saith the LORD God of Israel against the pastorsthat feed my people; Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away,and have not visited them: behold, I will visit upon you the evil ofyour doings, saith the LORD.
23:3 And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all countrieswhither I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds;and they shall be fruitful and increase.
23:4 And I will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them: andthey shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they belacking, saith the LORD.
23:5 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise untoDavid a righteous Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, andshall execute judgment and justice in the earth.
23:6 In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely:and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OURRIGHTEOUSNESS.
23:7 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that they shallno more say, The LORD liveth, which brought up the children of Israelout of the land of Egypt; 
23:8 But, The LORD liveth, which brought upand which led the seed of the house of Israel out of the northcountry, and from all countries whither I had driven them; and theyshall dwell in their own land.
23:9 Mine heart within me is broken because of the prophets; all mybones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine hathovercome, because of the LORD, and because of the words of hisholiness.
23:10 For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing theland mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, andtheir course is evil, and their force is not right.
23:11 For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have Ifound their wickedness, saith the LORD.
23:12 Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in thedarkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bringevil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.
23:13 And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; theyprophesied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.
23:14 I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing:they commit adultery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the handsof evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness; they are allof them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.
23:15 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets;Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the waterof gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profaneness gone forthinto all the land.
23:16 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of theprophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak avision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the LORD.
23:17 They say still unto them that despise me, The LORD hath said, Yeshall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after theimagination of his own heart, No evil shall come upon you.
23:18 For who hath stood in the counsel of the LORD, and hathperceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and heard it?
23:19 Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth in fury, even agrievous whirlwind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of thewicked.
23:20 The anger of the LORD shall not return, until he have executed,and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart: in the latterdays ye shall consider it perfectly.
23:21 I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spokento them, yet they prophesied.
23:22 But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people tohear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil way,and from the evil of their doings.
23:23 Am I a God at hand, saith the LORD, and not a God afar off?
23:24 Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him?saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD.
23:25 I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in myname, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.
23:26 How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets thatprophesy lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their ownheart; 
23:27 Which think to cause my people to forget my name by theirdreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathershave forgotten my name for Baal.
23:28 The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he thathath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff tothe wheat? saith the LORD.
23:29 Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORD; and like a hammerthat breaketh the rock in pieces?  
23:30 Therefore, behold, I amagainst the prophets, saith the LORD, that steal my words every onefrom his neighbour.
23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that usetheir tongues, and say, He saith.
23:32 Behold, I am against them that prophesy false dreams, saith theLORD, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, andby their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them: thereforethey shall not profit this people at all, saith the LORD.
23:33 And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall askthee, saying, What is the burden of the LORD? thou shalt then say untothem, What burden? I will even forsake you, saith the LORD.
23:34 And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, thatshall say, The burden of the LORD, I will even punish that man and hishouse.
23:35 Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbour, and every one tohis brother, What hath the LORD answered? and, What hath the LORDspoken?  
23:36 And the burden of the LORD shall ye mention no more:for every man's word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted thewords of the living God, of the LORD of hosts our God.
23:37 Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath the LORD answeredthee? and, What hath the LORD spoken?  
23:38 But since ye say, Theburden of the LORD; therefore thus saith the LORD; Because ye say thisword, The burden of the LORD, and I have sent unto you, saying, Yeshall not say, The burden of the LORD; 
23:39 Therefore, behold, I,even I, will utterly forget you, and I will forsake you, and the citythat I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence:
23:40 And I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and aperpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.
24:1 The LORD shewed me, and, behold, two baskets of figs were setbefore the temple of the LORD, after that Nebuchadrezzar king ofBabylon had carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king ofJudah, and the princes of Judah, with the carpenters and smiths, fromJerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon.
24:2 One basket had very good figs, even like the figs that are firstripe: and the other basket had very naughty figs, which could not beeaten, they were so bad.
24:3 Then said the LORD unto me, What seest thou, Jeremiah? And Isaid, Figs; the good figs, very good; and the evil, very evil, thatcannot be eaten, they are so evil.
24:4 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
24:5 Thus saiththe LORD, the God of Israel; Like these good figs, so will Iacknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah, whom I havesent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good.
24:6 For I will set mine eyes upon them for good, and I will bringthem again to this land: and I will build them, and not pull themdown; and I will plant them, and not pluck them up.
24:7 And I will give them an heart to know me, that I am the LORD: andthey shall be my people, and I will be their God: for they shallreturn unto me with their whole heart.
24:8 And as the evil figs, which cannot be eaten, they are so evil;surely thus saith the LORD, So will I give Zedekiah the king of Judah,and his princes, and the residue of Jerusalem, that remain in thisland, and them that dwell in the land of Egypt: 
24:9 And I willdeliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth fortheir hurt, to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, inall places whither I shall drive them.
24:10 And I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, amongthem, till they be consumed from off the land that I gave unto themand to their fathers.
25:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judahin the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, thatwas the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; 
25:2 The whichJeremiah the prophet spake unto all the people of Judah, and to allthe inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, 
25:3 From the thirteenth year ofJosiah the son of Amon king of Judah, even unto this day, that is thethree and twentieth year, the word of the LORD hath come unto me, andI have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye have nothearkened.
25:4 And the LORD hath sent unto you all his servants the prophets,rising early and sending them; but ye have not hearkened, nor inclinedyour ear to hear.
25:5 They said, Turn ye again now every one from his evil way, andfrom the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that the LORD hathgiven unto you and to your fathers for ever and ever: 
25:6 And go notafter other gods to serve them, and to worship them, and provoke menot to anger with the works of your hands; and I will do you no hurt.
25:7 Yet ye have not hearkened unto me, saith the LORD; that ye mightprovoke me to anger with the works of your hands to your own hurt.
25:8 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Because ye have not heardmy words, 
25:9 Behold, I will send and take all the families of thenorth, saith the LORD, and Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, myservant, and will bring them against this land, and against theinhabitants thereof, and against all these nations round about, andwill utterly destroy them, and make them an astonishment, and anhissing, and perpetual desolations.
25:10 Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth, and the voiceof gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride,the sound of the millstones, and the light of the candle.
25:11 And this whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment;and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.
25:12 And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished,that I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation, saith theLORD, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will makeit perpetual desolations.
25:13 And I will bring upon that land all my words which I havepronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, whichJeremiah hath prophesied against all the nations.
25:14 For many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of themalso: and I will recompense them according to their deeds, andaccording to the works of their own hands.
25:15 For thus saith the LORD God of Israel unto me; Take the wine cupof this fury at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I sendthee, to drink it.
25:16 And they shall drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of thesword that I will send among them.
25:17 Then took I the cup at the LORD's hand, and made all the nationsto drink, unto whom the LORD had sent me: 
25:18 To wit, Jerusalem, andthe cities of Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof,to make them a desolation, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse;as it is this day; 
25:19 Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, andhis princes, and all his people; 
25:20 And all the mingled people, andall the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of thePhilistines, and Ashkelon, and Azzah, and Ekron, and the remnant ofAshdod, 
25:21 Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon, 
25:22 And allthe kings of Tyrus, and all the kings of Zidon, and the kings of theisles which are beyond the sea, 
25:23 Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, andall that are in the utmost corners, 
25:24 And all the kings of Arabia,and all the kings of the mingled people that dwell in the desert,
25:25 And all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and allthe kings of the Medes, 
25:26 And all the kings of the north, far andnear, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world, which areupon the face of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink afterthem.
25:27 Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD ofhosts, the God of Israel; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, andfall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send amongyou.
25:28 And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at thine hand todrink, then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Yeshall certainly drink.
25:29 For, lo, I begin to bring evil on the city which is called by myname, and should ye be utterly unpunished? Ye shall not be unpunished:for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth,saith the LORD of hosts.
25:30 Therefore prophesy thou against them all these words, and sayunto them, The LORD shall roar from on high, and utter his voice fromhis holy habitation; he shall mightily roar upon his habitation; heshall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes, against all theinhabitants of the earth.
25:31 A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the LORDhath a controversy with the nations, he will plead with all flesh; hewill give them that are wicked to the sword, saith the LORD.
25:32 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, evil shall go forth fromnation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from thecoasts of the earth.
25:33 And the slain of the LORD shall be at that day from one end ofthe earth even unto the other end of the earth: they shall not belamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung upon theground.
25:34 Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and wallow yourselves in the ashes,ye principal of the flock: for the days of your slaughter and of yourdispersions are accomplished; and ye shall fall like a pleasantvessel.
25:35 And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principalof the flock to escape.
25:36 A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and an howling of theprincipal of the flock, shall be heard: for the LORD hath spoiledtheir pasture.
25:37 And the peaceable habitations are cut down because of the fierceanger of the LORD.
25:38 He hath forsaken his covert, as the lion: for their land isdesolate because of the fierceness of the oppressor, and because ofhis fierce anger.
26:1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah kingof Judah came this word from the LORD, saying, 
26:2 Thus saith theLORD; Stand in the court of the LORD's house, and speak unto all thecities of Judah, which come to worship in the LORD's house, all thewords that I command thee to speak unto them; diminish not a word:
26:3 If so be they will hearken, and turn every man from his evil way,that I may repent me of the evil, which I purpose to do unto thembecause of the evil of their doings.
26:4 And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; If ye will nothearken to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before you, 
26:5 Tohearken to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent untoyou, both rising up early, and sending them, but ye have nothearkened; 
26:6 Then will I make this house like Shiloh, and will makethis city a curse to all the nations of the earth.
26:7 So the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiahspeaking these words in the house of the LORD.
26:8 Now it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speakingall that the LORD had commanded him to speak unto all the people, thatthe priests and the prophets and all the people took him, saying, Thoushalt surely die.
26:9 Why hast thou prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, Thishouse shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without aninhabitant?  And all the people were gathered against Jeremiah in thehouse of the LORD.
26:10 When the princes of Judah heard these things, then they came upfrom the king's house unto the house of the LORD, and sat down in theentry of the new gate of the LORD's house.
26:11 Then spake the priests and the prophets unto the princes and toall the people, saying, This man is worthy to die; for he hathprophesied against this city, as ye have heard with your ears.
26:12 Then spake Jeremiah unto all the princes and to all the people,saying, The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and againstthis city all the words that ye have heard.
26:13 Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey thevoice of the LORD your God; and the LORD will repent him of the evilthat he hath pronounced against you.
26:14 As for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as seemeth goodand meet unto you.
26:15 But know ye for certain, that if ye put me to death, ye shallsurely bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, andupon the inhabitants thereof: for of a truth the LORD hath sent meunto you to speak all these words in your ears.
26:16 Then said the princes and all the people unto the priests and tothe prophets; This man is not worthy to die: for he hath spoken to usin the name of the LORD our God.
26:17 Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spake to allthe assembly of the people, saying, 
26:18 Micah the Morasthiteprophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and spake to all thepeople of Judah, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Zion shall beplowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and themountain of the house as the high places of a forest.
26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him at all todeath?  did he not fear the LORD, and besought the LORD, and the LORDrepented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? Thusmight we procure great evil against our souls.
26:20 And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of theLORD, Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjathjearim, who prophesiedagainst this city and against this land according to all the words ofJeremiah.
26:21 And when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty men, and allthe princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death: butwhen Urijah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into Egypt;
26:22 And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan theson of Achbor, and certain men with him into Egypt.
26:23 And they fetched forth Urijah out of Egypt, and brought him untoJehoiakim the king; who slew him with the sword, and cast his deadbody into the graves of the common people.
26:24 Nevertheless the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was withJeremiah, that they should not give him into the hand of the people toput him to death.
27:1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah kingof Judah came this word unto Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 
27:2 Thussaith the LORD to me; Make thee bonds and yokes, and put them upon thyneck, 
27:3 And send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab,and to the king of the Ammonites, and to the king of Tyrus, and to theking of Zidon, by the hand of the messengers which come to Jerusalemunto Zedekiah king of Judah; 
27:4 And command them to say unto theirmasters, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Thus shallye say unto your masters; 
27:5 I have made the earth, the man and thebeast that are upon the ground, by my great power and by myoutstretched arm, and have given it unto whom it seemed meet unto me.
27:6 And now have I given all these lands into the hand ofNebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant; and the beasts of thefield have I given him also to serve him.
27:7 And all nations shall serve him, and his son, and his son's son,until the very time of his land come: and then many nations and greatkings shall serve themselves of him.
27:8 And it shall come to pass, that the nation and kingdom which willnot serve the same Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, and that willnot put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nationwill I punish, saith the LORD, with the sword, and with the famine,and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand.
27:9 Therefore hearken not ye to your prophets, nor to your diviners,nor to your dreamers, nor to your enchanters, nor to your sorcerers,which speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon:
27:10 For they prophesy a lie unto you, to remove you far from yourland; and that I should drive you out, and ye should perish.
27:11 But the nations that bring their neck under the yoke of the kingof Babylon, and serve him, those will I let remain still in their ownland, saith the LORD; and they shall till it, and dwell therein.
27:12 I spake also to Zedekiah king of Judah according to all thesewords, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon,and serve him and his people, and live.
27:13 Why will ye die, thou and thy people, by the sword, by thefamine, and by the pestilence, as the LORD hath spoken against thenation that will not serve the king of Babylon?  
27:14 Thereforehearken not unto the words of the prophets that speak unto you,saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon: for they prophesy alie unto you.
27:15 For I have not sent them, saith the LORD, yet they prophesy alie in my name; that I might drive you out, and that ye might perish,ye, and the prophets that prophesy unto you.
27:16 Also I spake to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thussaith the LORD; Hearken not to the words of your prophets thatprophesy unto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the LORD's houseshall now shortly be brought again from Babylon: for they prophesy alie unto you.
27:17 Hearken not unto them; serve the king of Babylon, and live:wherefore should this city be laid waste?  
27:18 But if they beprophets, and if the word of the LORD be with them, let them now makeintercession to the LORD of hosts, that the vessels which are left inthe house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah, and atJerusalem, go not to Babylon.
27:19 For thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, andconcerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning theresidue of the vessels that remain in this city.
27:20 Which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took not, when he carriedaway captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah fromJerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem; 
27:21 Yea, thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning thevessels that remain in the house of the LORD, and in the house of theking of Judah and of Jerusalem; 
27:22 They shall be carried toBabylon, and there shall they be until the day that I visit them,saith the LORD; then will I bring them up, and restore them to thisplace.
28:1 And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reignof Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, and in the fifth month,that Hananiah the son of Azur the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spakeunto me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests andof all the people, saying, 
28:2 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, theGod of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
28:3 Within two full years will I bring again into this place all thevessels of the LORD's house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon tookaway from this place, and carried them to Babylon: 
28:4 And I willbring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah,with all the captives of Judah, that went into Babylon, saith theLORD: for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
28:5 Then the prophet Jeremiah said unto the prophet Hananiah in thepresence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people thatstood in the house of the LORD, 
28:6 Even the prophet Jeremiah said,Amen: the LORD do so: the LORD perform thy words which thou hastprophesied, to bring again the vessels of the LORD's house, and allthat is carried away captive, from Babylon into this place.
28:7 Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears,and in the ears of all the people; 
28:8 The prophets that have beenbefore me and before thee of old prophesied both against manycountries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and ofpestilence.
28:9 The prophet which prophesieth of peace, when the word of theprophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known, that theLORD hath truly sent him.
28:10 Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from off the prophetJeremiah's neck, and brake it.
28:11 And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying,Thus saith the LORD; Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzarking of Babylon from the neck of all nations within the space of twofull years. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way.
28:12 Then the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the prophet, afterthat Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of theprophet Jeremiah, saying, 
28:13 Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thussaith the LORD; Thou hast broken the yokes of wood; but thou shaltmake for them yokes of iron.
28:14 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; I have puta yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that they may serveNebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they shall serve him: and I havegiven him the beasts of the field also.
28:15 Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hearnow, Hananiah; The LORD hath not sent thee; but thou makest thispeople to trust in a lie.
28:16 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will cast thee from offthe face of the earth: this year thou shalt die, because thou hasttaught rebellion against the LORD.
28:17 So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.
29:1 Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophetsent from Jerusalem unto the residue of the elders which were carriedaway captives, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all thepeople whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem toBabylon; 
29:2 (After that Jeconiah the king, and the queen, and theeunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the carpenters, andthe smiths, were departed from Jerusalem;) 
29:3 By the hand of Elasahthe son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiahking of Judah sent unto Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon)saying, 
29:4 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, unto allthat are carried away captives, whom I have caused to be carried awayfrom Jerusalem unto Babylon; 
29:5 Build ye houses, and dwell in them;and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them; 
29:6 Take ye wives, andbeget sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give yourdaughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; that yemay be increased there, and not diminished.
29:7 And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to becarried away captives, and pray unto the LORD for it: for in the peacethereof shall ye have peace.
29:8 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Let not yourprophets and your diviners, that be in the midst of you, deceive you,neither hearken to your dreams which ye cause to be dreamed.
29:9 For they prophesy falsely unto you in my name: I have not sentthem, saith the LORD.
29:10 For thus saith the LORD, That after seventy years beaccomplished at Babylon I will visit you, and perform my good wordtoward you, in causing you to return to this place.
29:11 For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD,thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.
29:12 Then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me,and I will hearken unto you.
29:13 And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for mewith all your heart.
29:14 And I will be found of you, saith the LORD: and I will turn awayyour captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and fromall the places whither I have driven you, saith the LORD; and I willbring you again into the place whence I caused you to be carried awaycaptive.
29:15 Because ye have said, The LORD hath raised us up prophets inBabylon; 
29:16 Know that thus saith the LORD of the king that sittethupon the throne of David, and of all the people that dwelleth in thiscity, and of your brethren that are not gone forth with you intocaptivity; 
29:17 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will sendupon them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will makethem like vile figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so evil.
29:18 And I will persecute them with the sword, with the famine, andwith the pestilence, and will deliver them to be removed to all thekingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and anhissing, and a reproach, among all the nations whither I have driventhem: 
29:19 Because they have not hearkened to my words, saith theLORD, which I sent unto them by my servants the prophets, rising upearly and sending them; but ye would not hear, saith the LORD.
29:20 Hear ye therefore the word of the LORD, all ye of the captivity,whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon: 
29:21 Thus saith the LORDof hosts, the God of Israel, of Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and ofZedekiah the son of Maaseiah, which prophesy a lie unto you in myname; Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar kingof Babylon; and he shall slay them before your eyes; 
29:22 And of themshall be taken up a curse by all the captivity of Judah which are inBabylon, saying, The LORD make thee like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whomthe king of Babylon roasted in the fire; 
29:23 Because they havecommitted villany in Israel, and have committed adultery with theirneighbours' wives, and have spoken lying words in my name, which Ihave not commanded them; even I know, and am a witness, saith theLORD.
29:24 Thus shalt thou also speak to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,
29:25 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying,Because thou hast sent letters in thy name unto all the people thatare at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, andto all the priests, saying, 
29:26 The LORD hath made thee priest inthe stead of Jehoiada the priest, that ye should be officers in thehouse of the LORD, for every man that is mad, and maketh himself aprophet, that thou shouldest put him in prison, and in the stocks.
29:27 Now therefore why hast thou not reproved Jeremiah of Anathoth,which maketh himself a prophet to you?  
29:28 For therefore he sentunto us in Babylon, saying, This captivity is long: build ye houses,and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them.
29:29 And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears ofJeremiah the prophet.
29:30 Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 
29:31 Sendto all them of the captivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerningShemaiah the Nehelamite; Because that Shemaiah hath prophesied untoyou, and I sent him not, and he caused you to trust in a lie: 
29:32 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will punish Shemaiah theNehelamite, and his seed: he shall not have a man to dwell among thispeople; neither shall he behold the good that I will do for my people,saith the LORD; because he hath taught rebellion against the LORD.
30:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 
30:2 Thusspeaketh the LORD God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words thatI have spoken unto thee in a book.
30:3 For, lo, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will bring againthe captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the LORD: and Iwill cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers,and they shall possess it.
30:4 And these are the words that the LORD spake concerning Israel andconcerning Judah.
30:5 For thus saith the LORD; We have heard a voice of trembling, offear, and not of peace.
30:6 Ask ye now, and see whether a man doth travail with child?wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a womanin travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?  
30:7 Alas! forthat day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time ofJacob's trouble, but he shall be saved out of it.
30:8 For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD of hosts,that I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thybonds, and strangers shall no more serve themselves of him: 
30:9 Butthey shall serve the LORD their God, and David their king, whom I willraise up unto them.
30:10 Therefore fear thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the LORD;neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar,and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return,and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid.
30:11 For I am with thee, saith the LORD, to save thee: though I makea full end of all nations whither I have scattered thee, yet I willnot make a full end of thee: but I will correct thee in measure, andwill not leave thee altogether unpunished.
30:12 For thus saith the LORD, Thy bruise is incurable, and thy woundis grievous.
30:13 There is none to plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up:thou hast no healing medicines.
30:14 All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for Ihave wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement ofa cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity; because thy sinswere increased.
30:15 Why criest thou for thine affliction? thy sorrow is incurablefor the multitude of thine iniquity: because thy sins were increased,I have done these things unto thee.
30:16 Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and allthine adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; andthey that spoil thee shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon theewill I give for a prey.
30:17 For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thywounds, saith the LORD; because they called thee an Outcast, saying,This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.
30:18 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will bring again the captivity ofJacob's tents, and have mercy on his dwellingplaces; and the cityshall be builded upon her own heap, and the palace shall remain afterthe manner thereof.
30:19 And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of themthat make merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few;I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.
30:20 Their children also shall be as aforetime, and theircongregation shall be established before me, and I will punish allthat oppress them.
30:21 And their nobles shall be of themselves, and their governorshall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to drawnear, and he shall approach unto me: for who is this that engaged hisheart to approach unto me? saith the LORD.
30:22 And ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.
30:23 Behold, the whirlwind of the LORD goeth forth with fury, acontinuing whirlwind: it shall fall with pain upon the head of thewicked.
30:24 The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return, until he hathdone it, and until he have performed the intents of his heart: in thelatter days ye shall consider it.
31:1 At the same time, saith the LORD, will I be the God of all thefamilies of Israel, and they shall be my people.
31:2 Thus saith the LORD, The people which were left of the swordfound grace in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause himto rest.
31:3 The LORD hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have lovedthee with an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have Idrawn thee.
31:4 Again I will build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin ofIsrael: thou shalt again be adorned with thy tabrets, and shalt goforth in the dances of them that make merry.
31:5 Thou shalt yet plant vines upon the mountains of Samaria: theplanters shall plant, and shall eat them as common things.
31:6 For there shall be a day, that the watchmen upon the mountEphraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion unto the LORDour God.
31:7 For thus saith the LORD; Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shoutamong the chief of the nations: publish ye, praise ye, and say, OLORD, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.
31:8 Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather themfrom the coasts of the earth, and with them the blind and the lame,the woman with child and her that travaileth with child together: agreat company shall return thither.
31:9 They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I leadthem: I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straightway, wherein they shall not stumble: for I am a father to Israel, andEphraim is my firstborn.
31:10 Hear the word of the LORD, O ye nations, and declare it in theisles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, andkeep him, as a shepherd doth his flock.
31:11 For the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from the handof him that was stronger than he.
31:12 Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, andshall flow together to the goodness of the LORD, for wheat, and forwine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of the herd: andtheir soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow anymore at all.
31:13 Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men andold together: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and willcomfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
31:14 And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and mypeople shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith the LORD.
31:15 Thus saith the LORD; A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation,and bitter weeping; Rahel weeping for her children refused to becomforted for her children, because they were not.
31:16 Thus saith the LORD; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thineeyes from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, saith the LORD; andthey shall come again from the land of the enemy.
31:17 And there is hope in thine end, saith the LORD, that thychildren shall come again to their own border.
31:18 I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus; Thou hastchastised me, and I was chastised, as a bullock unaccustomed to theyoke: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for thou art the LORD myGod.
31:19 Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I wasinstructed, I smote upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, evenconfounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth.
31:20 Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a pleasant child? for since Ispake against him, I do earnestly remember him still: therefore mybowels are troubled for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saiththe LORD.
31:21 Set thee up waymarks, make thee high heaps: set thine hearttoward the highway, even the way which thou wentest: turn again, Ovirgin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.
31:22 How long wilt thou go about, O thou backsliding daughter? forthe LORD hath created a new thing in the earth, A woman shall compassa man.
31:23 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As yet theyshall use this speech in the land of Judah and in the cities thereof,when I shall bring again their captivity; The LORD bless thee, Ohabitation of justice, and mountain of holiness.
31:24 And there shall dwell in Judah itself, and in all the citiesthereof together, husbandmen, and they that go forth with flocks.
31:25 For I have satiated the weary soul, and I have replenished everysorrowful soul.
31:26 Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet unto me.
31:27 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will sow the houseof Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with theseed of beast.
31:28 And it shall come to pass, that like as I have watched overthem, to pluck up, and to break down, and to throw down, and todestroy, and to afflict; so will I watch over them, to build, and toplant, saith the LORD.
31:29 In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten asour grape, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
31:30 But every one shall die for his own iniquity: every man thateateth the sour grape, his teeth shall be set on edge.
31:31 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will make a newcovenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: 
31:32 Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in theday that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land ofEgypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was an husband untothem, saith the LORD: 
31:33 But this shall be the covenant that I willmake with the house of Israel; After those days, saith the LORD, Iwill put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts;and will be their God, and they shall be my people.
31:34 And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and everyman his brother, saying, Know the LORD: for they shall all know me,from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the LORD: forI will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.
31:35 Thus saith the LORD, which giveth the sun for a light by day,and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night,which divideth the sea when the waves thereof roar; The LORD of hostsis his name: 
31:36 If those ordinances depart from before me, saiththe LORD, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nationbefore me for ever.
31:37 Thus saith the LORD; If heaven above can be measured, and thefoundations of the earth searched out beneath, I will also cast offall the seed of Israel for all that they have done, saith the LORD.
31:38 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the city shall bebuilt to the LORD from the tower of Hananeel unto the gate of thecorner.
31:39 And the measuring line shall yet go forth over against it uponthe hill Gareb, and shall compass about to Goath.
31:40 And the whole valley of the dead bodies, and of the ashes, andall the fields unto the brook of Kidron, unto the corner of the horsegate toward the east, shall be holy unto the LORD; it shall not beplucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.
32:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year ofZedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year ofNebuchadrezzar.
32:2 For then the king of Babylon's army besieged Jerusalem: andJeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the prison, which wasin the king of Judah's house.
32:3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, Whereforedost thou prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will givethis city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;
32:4 And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand ofthe Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the kingof Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyesshall behold his eyes; 
32:5 And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babylon, andthere shall he be until I visit him, saith the LORD: though ye fightwith the Chaldeans, ye shall not prosper.
32:6 And Jeremiah said, The word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
32:7 Behold, Hanameel the son of Shallum thine uncle shall come untothee saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth: for the right ofredemption is thine to buy it.
32:8 So Hanameel mine uncle's son came to me in the court of theprison according to the word of the LORD, and said unto me, Buy myfield, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the country ofBenjamin: for the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption isthine; buy it for thyself.Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.
32:9 And I bought the field of Hanameel my uncle's son, that was inAnathoth, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver.
32:10 And I subscribed the evidence, and sealed it, and tookwitnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.
32:11 So I took the evidence of the purchase, both that which wassealed according to the law and custom, and that which was open: 
32:12 And I gave the evidence of the purchase unto Baruch the son of Neriah,the son of Maaseiah, in the sight of Hanameel mine uncle's son, and inthe presence of the witnesses that subscribed the book of thepurchase, before all the Jews that sat in the court of the prison.
32:13 And I charged Baruch before them, saying, 
32:14 Thus saith theLORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Take these evidences, this evidenceof the purchase, both which is sealed, and this evidence which isopen; and put them in an earthen vessel, that they may continue manydays.
32:15 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Houses andfields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land.
32:16 Now when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase untoBaruch the son of Neriah, I prayed unto the LORD, saying, 
32:17 AhLord GOD! behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy greatpower and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee:
32:18 Thou shewest lovingkindness unto thousands, and recompensest theiniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them:the Great, the Mighty God, the LORD of hosts, is his name, 
32:19 Greatin counsel, and mighty in work: for thine eyes are open upon all theways of the sons of men: to give every one according to his ways, andaccording to the fruit of his doings: 
32:20 Which hast set signs andwonders in the land of Egypt, even unto this day, and in Israel, andamong other men; and hast made thee a name, as at this day; 
32:21 Andhast brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt withsigns, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with a stretchedout arm, and with great terror; 
32:22 And hast given them this land,which thou didst swear to their fathers to give them, a land flowingwith milk and honey; 
32:23 And they came in, and possessed it; butthey obeyed not thy voice, neither walked in thy law; they have donenothing of all that thou commandedst them to do: therefore thou hastcaused all this evil to come upon them: 
32:24 Behold the mounts, theyare come unto the city to take it; and the city is given into the handof the Chaldeans, that fight against it, because of the sword, and ofthe famine, and of the pestilence: and what thou hast spoken is cometo pass; and, behold, thou seest it.
32:25 And thou hast said unto me, O Lord GOD, Buy thee the field formoney, and take witnesses; for the city is given into the hand of theChaldeans.
32:26 Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 
32:27 Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh: is there any thing toohard for me?  
32:28 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will givethis city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand ofNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it: 
32:29 And theChaldeans, that fight against this city, shall come and set fire onthis city, and burn it with the houses, upon whose roofs they haveoffered incense unto Baal, and poured out drink offerings unto othergods, to provoke me to anger.
32:30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have onlydone evil before me from their youth: for the children of Israel haveonly provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, saith theLORD.
32:31 For this city hath been to me as a provocation of mine anger andof my fury from the day that they built it even unto this day; that Ishould remove it from before my face, 
32:32 Because of all the evil ofthe children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they havedone to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, their princes, theirpriests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitantsof Jerusalem.
32:33 And they have turned unto me the back, and not the face: thoughI taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have nothearkened to receive instruction.
32:34 But they set their abominations in the house, which is called bymy name, to defile it.
32:35 And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valleyof the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to passthrough the fire unto Molech; which I commanded them not, neither cameit into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judahto sin.
32:36 And now therefore thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel,concerning this city, whereof ye say, It shall be delivered into thehand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and bythe pestilence; 
32:37 Behold, I will gather them out of all countries,whither I have driven them in mine anger, and in my fury, and in greatwrath; and I will bring them again unto this place, and I will causethem to dwell safely: 
32:38 And they shall be my people, and I will betheir God: 
32:39 And I will give them one heart, and one way, thatthey may fear me for ever, for the good of them, and of their childrenafter them: 
32:40 And I will make an everlasting covenant with them,that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; but I will putmy fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me.
32:41 Yea, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plantthem in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my wholesoul.
32:42 For thus saith the LORD; Like as I have brought all this greatevil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that Ihave promised them.
32:43 And fields shall be bought in this land, whereof ye say, It isdesolate without man or beast; it is given into the hand of theChaldeans.
32:44 Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe evidences, andseal them, and take witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in theplaces about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the citiesof the mountains, and in the cities of the valley, and in the citiesof the south: for I will cause their captivity to return, saith theLORD.
33:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the second time,while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying, 
33:2 Thussaith the LORD the maker thereof, the LORD that formed it, toestablish it; the LORD is his name; 
33:3 Call unto me, and I willanswer thee, and shew thee great and mighty things, which thou knowestnot.
33:4 For thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the housesof this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, whichare thrown down by the mounts, and by the sword; 
33:5 They come tofight with the Chaldeans, but it is to fill them with the dead bodiesof men, whom I have slain in mine anger and in my fury, and for allwhose wickedness I have hid my face from this city.
33:6 Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them,and will reveal unto them the abundance of peace and truth.
33:7 And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity ofIsrael to return, and will build them, as at the first.
33:8 And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby theyhave sinned against me; and I will pardon all their iniquities,whereby they have sinned, and whereby they have transgressed againstme.
33:9 And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and an honourbefore all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the goodthat I do unto them: and they shall fear and tremble for all thegoodness and for all the prosperity that I procure unto it.
33:10 Thus saith the LORD; Again there shall be heard in this place,which ye say shall be desolate without man and without beast, even inthe cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that aredesolate, without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast,
33:11 The voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of thebridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voice of them that shallsay, Praise the LORD of hosts: for the LORD is good; for his mercyendureth for ever: and of them that shall bring the sacrifice ofpraise into the house of the LORD. For I will cause to return thecaptivity of the land, as at the first, saith the LORD.
33:12 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Again in this place, which isdesolate without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof,shall be an habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.
33:13 In the cities of the mountains, in the cities of the vale, andin the cities of the south, and in the land of Benjamin, and in theplaces about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flockspass again under the hands of him that telleth them, saith the LORD.
33:14 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will perform thatgood thing which I have promised unto the house of Israel and to thehouse of Judah.
33:15 In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch ofrighteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute judgment andrighteousness in the land.
33:16 In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwellsafely: and this is the name wherewith she shall be called, The LORDour righteousness.
33:17 For thus saith the LORD; David shall never want a man to situpon the throne of the house of Israel; 
33:18 Neither shall thepriests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, andto kindle meat offerings, and to do sacrifice continually.
33:19 And the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, saying, 
33:20 Thussaith the LORD; If ye can break my covenant of the day, and mycovenant of the night, and that there should not be day and night intheir season; 
33:21 Then may also my covenant be broken with David myservant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; andwith the Levites the priests, my ministers.
33:22 As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand ofthe sea measured: so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, andthe Levites that minister unto me.
33:23 Moreover the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying, 
33:24 Considerest thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The twofamilies which the LORD hath chosen, he hath even cast them off? thusthey have despised my people, that they should be no more a nationbefore them.
33:25 Thus saith the LORD; If my covenant be not with day and night,and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth; 
33:26 Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob and David my servant, so thatI will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham,Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and havemercy on them.
34:1 The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, whenNebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdomsof the earth of his dominion, and all the people, fought againstJerusalem, and against all the cities thereof, saying, 
34:2 Thus saiththe LORD, the God of Israel; Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah,and tell him, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give this city intothe hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire: 
34:3 And thou shalt not escape out of his hand, but shalt surely be taken,and delivered into his hand; and thine eyes shall behold the eyes ofthe king of Babylon, and he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, andthou shalt go to Babylon.
34:4 Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah; Thussaith the LORD of thee, Thou shalt not die by the sword: 
34:5 But thoushalt die in peace: and with the burnings of thy fathers, the formerkings which were before thee, so shall they burn odours for thee; andthey will lament thee, saying, Ah lord! for I have pronounced theword, saith the LORD.
34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophet spake all these words unto Zedekiahking of Judah in Jerusalem, 
34:7 When the king of Babylon's armyfought against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah thatwere left, against Lachish, and against Azekah: for these defencedcities remained of the cities of Judah.
34:8 This is the word that came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, afterthat the king Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people whichwere at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty unto them; 
34:9 That every manshould let his manservant, and every man his maidservant, being anHebrew or an Hebrewess, go free; that none should serve himself ofthem, to wit, of a Jew his brother.
34:10 Now when all the princes, and all the people, which had enteredinto the covenant, heard that every one should let his manservant, andevery one his maidservant, go free, that none should serve themselvesof them any more, then they obeyed, and let them go.
34:11 But afterward they turned, and caused the servants and thehandmaids, whom they had let go free, to return, and brought them intosubjection for servants and for handmaids.
34:12 Therefore the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD,saying, 
34:13 Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; I made acovenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out ofthe land of Egypt, out of the house of bondmen, saying, 
34:14 At theend of seven years let ye go every man his brother an Hebrew, whichhath been sold unto thee; and when he hath served thee six years, thoushalt let him go free from thee: but your fathers hearkened not untome, neither inclined their ear.
34:15 And ye were now turned, and had done right in my sight, inproclaiming liberty every man to his neighbour; and ye had made acovenant before me in the house which is called by my name: 
34:16 Butye turned and polluted my name, and caused every man his servant, andevery man his handmaid, whom ye had set at liberty at their pleasure,to return, and brought them into subjection, to be unto you forservants and for handmaids.
34:17 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ye have not hearkened unto me, inproclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to hisneighbour: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the LORD, tothe sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will make youto be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.
34:18 And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant,which have not performed the words of the covenant which they had madebefore me, when they cut the calf in twain, and passed between theparts thereof, 
34:19 The princes of Judah, and the princes ofJerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of theland, which passed between the parts of the calf; 
34:20 I will evengive them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of themthat seek their life: and their dead bodies shall be for meat unto thefowls of the heaven, and to the beasts of the earth.
34:21 And Zedekiah king of Judah and his princes will I give into thehand of their enemies, and into the hand of them that seek their life,and into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, which are gone upfrom you.
34:22 Behold, I will command, saith the LORD, and cause them to returnto this city; and they shall fight against it, and take it, and burnit with fire: and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation withoutan inhabitant.
35:1 The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD in the days ofJehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying, 
35:2 Go unto thehouse of the Rechabites, and speak unto them, and bring them into thehouse of the LORD, into one of the chambers, and give them wine todrink.
35:3 Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah,and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of theRechabites; 
35:4 And I brought them into the house of the LORD, intothe chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God,which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamberof Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the door: 
35:5 And I setbefore the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine, andcups, and I said unto them, Drink ye wine.
35:6 But they said, We will drink no wine: for Jonadab the son ofRechab our father commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine,neither ye, nor your sons for ever: 
35:7 Neither shall ye build house,nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any: but all your days yeshall dwell in tents; that ye may live many days in the land where yebe strangers.
35:8 Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab ourfather in all that he hath charged us, to drink no wine all our days,we, our wives, our sons, nor our daughters; 
35:9 Nor to build housesfor us to dwell in: neither have we vineyard, nor field, nor seed:
35:10 But we have dwelt in tents, and have obeyed, and done accordingto all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
35:11 But it came to pass, when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came upinto the land, that we said, Come, and let us go to Jerusalem for fearof the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians:so we dwell at Jerusalem.
35:12 Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 
35:13 Thussaith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Go and tell the men ofJudah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will ye not receiveinstruction to hearken to my words? saith the LORD.
35:14 The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, that he commanded hissons not to drink wine, are performed; for unto this day they drinknone, but obey their father's commandment: notwithstanding I havespoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye hearkened not untome.
35:15 I have sent also unto you all my servants the prophets, risingup early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from hisevil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to servethem, and ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and toyour fathers: but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened untome.
35:16 Because the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have performed thecommandment of their father, which he commanded them; but this peoplehath not hearkened unto me: 
35:17 Therefore thus saith the LORD God ofhosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring upon Judah and upon allthe inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronouncedagainst them: because I have spoken unto them, but they have notheard; and I have called unto them, but they have not answered.
35:18 And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saiththe LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Because ye have obeyed thecommandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, anddone according unto all that he hath commanded you: 
35:19 Thereforethus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Jonadab the son ofRechab shall not want a man to stand before me for ever.
36:1 And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son ofJosiah king of Judah, that this word came unto Jeremiah from the LORD,saying, 
36:2 Take thee a roll of a book, and write therein all thewords that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, and against Judah,and against all the nations, from the day I spake unto thee, from thedays of Josiah, even unto this day.
36:3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which Ipurpose to do unto them; that they may return every man from his evilway; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.
36:4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah: and Baruch wrotefrom the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD, which he hadspoken unto him, upon a roll of a book.
36:5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I cannot gointo the house of the LORD: 
36:6 Therefore go thou, and read in theroll, which thou hast written from my mouth, the words of the LORD inthe ears of the people in the LORD's house upon the fasting day: andalso thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out oftheir cities.
36:7 It may be they will present their supplication before the LORD,and will return every one from his evil way: for great is the angerand the fury that the LORD hath pronounced against this people.
36:8 And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiahthe prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the LORDin the LORD's house.
36:9 And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son ofJosiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, that they proclaimed a fastbefore the LORD to all the people in Jerusalem, and to all the peoplethat came from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem.
36:10 Then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the houseof the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe,in the higher court, at the entry of the new gate of the LORD's house,in the ears of all the people.
36:11 When Michaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heardout of the book all the words of the LORD, 
36:12 Then he went downinto the king's house, into the scribe's chamber: and, lo, all theprinces sat there, even Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son ofShemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son ofShaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.
36:13 Then Michaiah declared unto them all the words that he hadheard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
36:14 Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, theson of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, Take in thinehand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, andcome. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and cameunto them.
36:15 And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears.So Baruch read it in their ears.
36:16 Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, theywere afraid both one and other, and said unto Baruch, We will surelytell the king of all these words.
36:17 And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How didst thou writeall these words at his mouth?  
36:18 Then Baruch answered them, Hepronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote themwith ink in the book.
36:19 Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou andJeremiah; and let no man know where ye be.
36:20 And they went in to the king into the court, but they laid upthe roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and told all the wordsin the ears of the king.
36:21 So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll: and he took it out ofElishama the scribe's chamber. And Jehudi read it in the ears of theking, and in the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king.
36:22 Now the king sat in the winterhouse in the ninth month: andthere was a fire on the hearth burning before him.
36:23 And it came to pass, that when Jehudi had read three or fourleaves, he cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire thatwas on the hearth, until all the roll was consumed in the fire thatwas on the hearth.
36:24 Yet they were not afraid, nor rent their garments, neither theking, nor any of his servants that heard all these words.
36:25 Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had madeintercession to the king that he would not burn the roll: but he wouldnot hear them.
36:26 But the king commanded Jerahmeel the son of Hammelech, andSeraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to takeBaruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet: but the LORD hid them.
36:27 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, after that the kinghad burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth ofJeremiah, saying, 
36:28 Take thee again another roll, and write in itall the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim theking of Judah hath burned.
36:29 And thou shalt say to Jehoiakim king of Judah, Thus saith theLORD; Thou hast burned this roll, saying, Why hast thou writtentherein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroythis land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast?  
36:30 Therefore thus saith the LORD of Jehoiakim king of Judah; He shallhave none to sit upon the throne of David: and his dead body shall becast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.
36:31 And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for theiriniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants ofJerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I havepronounced against them; but they hearkened not.
36:32 Then took Jeremiah another roll, and gave it to Baruch thescribe, the son of Neriah; who wrote therein from the mouth ofJeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah hadburned in the fire: and there were added besides unto them many likewords.
37:1 And king Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah theson of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in theland of Judah.
37:2 But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, didhearken unto the words of the LORD, which he spake by the prophetJeremiah.
37:3 And Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah andZephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest to the prophet Jeremiah,saying, Pray now unto the LORD our God for us.
37:4 Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they hadnot put him into prison.
37:5 Then Pharaoh's army was come forth out of Egypt: and when theChaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departedfrom Jerusalem.
37:6 Then came the word of the LORD unto the prophet Jeremiah saying,
37:7 Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Thus shall ye say to theking of Judah, that sent you unto me to enquire of me; Behold,Pharaoh's army, which is come forth to help you, shall return to Egyptinto their own land.
37:8 And the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city,and take it, and burn it with fire.
37:9 Thus saith the LORD; Deceive not yourselves, saying, TheChaldeans shall surely depart from us: for they shall not depart.
37:10 For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans thatfight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yetshould they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city withfire.
37:11 And it came to pass, that when the army of the Chaldeans wasbroken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh's army, 
37:12 ThenJeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin,to separate himself thence in the midst of the people.
37:13 And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the wardwas there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son ofHananiah; and he took Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou fallest awayto the Chaldeans.
37:14 Then said Jeremiah, It is false; I fall not away to theChaldeans.But he hearkened not to him: so Irijah took Jeremiah, and brought himto the princes.
37:15 Wherefore the princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him,and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe: for theyhad made that the prison.
37:16 When Jeremiah was entered into the dungeon, and into the cabins,and Jeremiah had remained there many days; 
37:17 Then Zedekiah theking sent, and took him out: and the king asked him secretly in hishouse, and said, Is there any word from the LORD? And Jeremiah said,There is: for, said he, thou shalt be delivered into the hand of theking of Babylon.
37:18 Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What have I offendedagainst thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that yehave put me in prison?  
37:19 Where are now your prophets whichprophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not comeagainst you, nor against this land?  
37:20 Therefore hear now, I praythee, O my lord the king: let my supplication, I pray thee, beaccepted before thee; that thou cause me not to return to the house ofJonathan the scribe, lest I die there.
37:21 Then Zedekiah the king commanded that they should commitJeremiah into the court of the prison, and that they should give himdaily a piece of bread out of the bakers' street, until all the breadin the city were spent.Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.
38:1 Then Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son ofPashur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur the son ofMalchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken unto all thepeople, saying, 
38:2 Thus saith the LORD, He that remaineth in thiscity shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence: buthe that goeth forth to the Chaldeans shall live; for he shall have hislife for a prey, and shall live.
38:3 Thus saith the LORD, This city shall surely be given into thehand of the king of Babylon's army, which shall take it.
38:4 Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech thee, letthis man be put to death: for thus he weakeneth the hands of the menof war that remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, inspeaking such words unto them: for this man seeketh not the welfare ofthis people, but the hurt.
38:5 Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand: for theking is not he that can do any thing against you.
38:6 Then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon ofMalchiah the son of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison:and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon there was nowater, but mire: so Jeremiah sunk in the mire.
38:7 Now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs which wasin the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon;the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin; 
38:8 Ebedmelech wentforth out of the king's house, and spake to the king saying, 
38:9 Mylord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done toJeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he islike to die for hunger in the place where he is: for there is no morebread in the city.
38:10 Then the king commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Takefrom hence thirty men with thee, and take up Jeremiah the prophet outof the dungeon, before he die.
38:11 So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house ofthe king under the treasury, and took thence old cast clouts and oldrotten rags, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.
38:12 And Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said unto Jeremiah, Put now theseold cast clouts and rotten rags under thine armholes under the cords.And Jeremiah did so.
38:13 So they drew up Jeremiah with cords, and took him up out of thedungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.
38:14 Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took Jeremiah the prophet untohim into the third entry that is in the house of the LORD: and theking said unto Jeremiah, I will ask thee a thing; hide nothing fromme.
38:15 Then Jeremiah said unto Zedekiah, If I declare it unto thee,wilt thou not surely put me to death? and if I give thee counsel, wiltthou not hearken unto me?  
38:16 So Zedekiah the king sware secretlyunto Jeremiah, saying, As the LORD liveth, that made us this soul, Iwill not put thee to death, neither will I give thee into the hand ofthese men that seek thy life.
38:17 Then said Jeremiah unto Zedekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the Godof hosts, the God of Israel; If thou wilt assuredly go forth unto theking of Babylon's princes, then thy soul shall live, and this cityshall not be burned with fire; and thou shalt live, and thine house:
38:18 But if thou wilt not go forth to the king of Babylon's princes,then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and theyshall burn it with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of their hand.
38:19 And Zedekiah the king said unto Jeremiah, I am afraid of theJews that are fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into theirhand, and they mock me.
38:20 But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseechthee, the voice of the LORD, which I speak unto thee: so it shall bewell unto thee, and thy soul shall live.
38:21 But if thou refuse to go forth, this is the word that the LORDhath shewed me: 
38:22 And, behold, all the women that are left in theking of Judah's house shall be brought forth to the king of Babylon'sprinces, and those women shall say, Thy friends have set thee on, andhave prevailed against thee: thy feet are sunk in the mire, and theyare turned away back.
38:23 So they shall bring out all thy wives and thy children to theChaldeans: and thou shalt not escape out of their hand, but shalt betaken by the hand of the king of Babylon: and thou shalt cause thiscity to be burned with fire.
38:24 Then said Zedekiah unto Jeremiah, Let no man know of thesewords, and thou shalt not die.
38:25 But if the princes hear that I have talked with thee, and theycome unto thee, and say unto thee, Declare unto us now what thou hastsaid unto the king, hide it not from us, and we will not put thee todeath; also what the king said unto thee: 
38:26 Then thou shalt sayunto them, I presented my supplication before the king, that he wouldnot cause me to return to Jonathan's house, to die there.
38:27 Then came all the princes unto Jeremiah, and asked him: and hetold them according to all these words that the king had commanded. Sothey left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.
38:28 So Jeremiah abode in the court of the prison until the day thatJerusalem was taken: and he was there when Jerusalem was taken.
39:1 In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month,came Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his army againstJerusalem, and they besieged it.
39:2 And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, theninth day of the month, the city was broken up.
39:3 And all the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat inthe middle gate, even Nergalsharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris,Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, with all the residue of the princes of theking of Babylon.
39:4 And it came to pass, that when Zedekiah the king of Judah sawthem, and all the men of war, then they fled, and went forth out ofthe city by night, by the way of the king's garden, by the gatebetwixt the two walls: and he went out the way of the plain.
39:5 But the Chaldeans' army pursued after them, and overtook Zedekiahin the plains of Jericho: and when they had taken him, they broughthim up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah in the land ofHamath, where he gave judgment upon him.
39:6 Then the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah in Riblahbefore his eyes: also the king of Babylon slew all the nobles ofJudah.
39:7 Moreover he put out Zedekiah's eyes, and bound him with chains,to carry him to Babylon.
39:8 And the Chaldeans burned the king's house, and the houses of thepeople, with fire, and brake down the walls of Jerusalem.
39:9 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captiveinto Babylon the remnant of the people that remained in the city, andthose that fell away, that fell to him, with the rest of the peoplethat remained.
39:10 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poor of thepeople, which had nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave themvineyards and fields at the same time.
39:11 Now Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave charge concerningJeremiah to Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, saying, 
39:12 Takehim, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do unto him even ashe shall say unto thee.
39:13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushasban,Rabsaris, and Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, and all the king of Babylon'sprinces; 
39:14 Even they sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court ofthe prison, and committed him unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the sonof Shaphan, that he should carry him home: so he dwelt among thepeople.
39:15 Now the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, while he was shutup in the court of the prison, saying, 
39:16 Go and speak toEbedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, theGod of Israel; Behold, I will bring my words upon this city for evil,and not for good; and they shall be accomplished in that day beforethee.
39:17 But I will deliver thee in that day, saith the LORD: and thoushalt not be given into the hand of the men of whom thou art afraid.
39:18 For I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by thesword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto thee: because thou hastput thy trust in me, saith the LORD.
40:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after thatNebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, whenhe had taken him being bound in chains among all that were carriedaway captive of Jerusalem and Judah, which were carried away captiveunto Babylon.
40:2 And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said unto him,The LORD thy God hath pronounced this evil upon this place.
40:3 Now the LORD hath brought it, and done according as he hath said:because ye have sinned against the LORD, and have not obeyed hisvoice, therefore this thing is come upon you.
40:4 And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains which wereupon thine hand. If it seem good unto thee to come with me intoBabylon, come; and I will look well unto thee: but if it seem ill untothee to come with me into Babylon, forbear: behold, all the land isbefore thee: whither it seemeth good and convenient for thee to go,thither go.
40:5 Now while he was not yet gone back, he said, Go back also toGedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, whom the king ofBabylon hath made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell withhim among the people: or go wheresoever it seemeth convenient untothee to go. So the captain of the guard gave him victuals and areward, and let him go.
40:6 Then went Jeremiah unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; anddwelt with him among the people that were left in the land.
40:7 Now when all the captains of the forces which were in the fields,even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had madeGedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committedunto him men, and women, and children, and of the poor of the land, ofthem that were not carried away captive to Babylon; 
40:8 Then theycame to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, andJohanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son ofTanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah theson of a Maachathite, they and their men.
40:9 And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan sware unto themand to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the Chaldeans: dwell inthe land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well withyou.
40:10 As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah, to serve theChaldeans, which will come unto us: but ye, gather ye wine, and summerfruits, and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in yourcities that ye have taken.
40:11 Likewise when all the Jews that were in Moab, and among theAmmonites, and in Edom, and that were in all the countries, heard thatthe king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had setover them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan; 
40:12 Evenall the Jews returned out of all places whither they were driven, andcame to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, unto Mizpah, and gathered wineand summer fruits very much.
40:13 Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of theforces that were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, 
40:14 Andsaid unto him, Dost thou certainly know that Baalis the king of theAmmonites hath sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to slay thee? ButGedaliah the son of Ahikam believed them not.
40:15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spake to Gedaliah in Mizpahsecretly saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will slay Ishmael theson of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it: wherefore should he slaythee, that all the Jews which are gathered unto thee should bescattered, and the remnant in Judah perish?  
40:16 But Gedaliah theson of Ahikam said unto Johanan the son of Kareah, Thou shalt not dothis thing: for thou speakest falsely of Ishmael.
41:1 Now it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son ofNethaniah the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, and the princes ofthe king, even ten men with him, came unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikamto Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together in Mizpah.
41:2 Then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men thatwere with him, and smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphanwith the sword, and slew him, whom the king of Babylon had madegovernor over the land.
41:3 Ishmael also slew all the Jews that were with him, even withGedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans that were found there, and themen of war.
41:4 And it came to pass the second day after he had slain Gedaliah,and no man knew it, 
41:5 That there came certain from Shechem, fromShiloh, and from Samaria, even fourscore men, having their beardsshaven, and their clothes rent, and having cut themselves, withofferings and incense in their hand, to bring them to the house of theLORD.
41:6 And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meetthem, weeping all along as he went: and it came to pass, as he metthem, he said unto them, Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.
41:7 And it was so, when they came into the midst of the city, thatIshmael the son of Nethaniah slew them, and cast them into the midstof the pit, he, and the men that were with him.
41:8 But ten men were found among them that said unto Ishmael, Slay usnot: for we have treasures in the field, of wheat, and of barley, andof oil, and of honey. So he forbare, and slew them not among theirbrethren.
41:9 Now the pit wherein Ishmael had cast all the dead bodies of themen, whom he had slain because of Gedaliah, was it which Asa the kinghad made for fear of Baasha king of Israel: and Ishmael the son ofNethaniah filled it with them that were slain.
41:10 Then Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the peoplethat were in Mizpah, even the king's daughters, and all the peoplethat remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard hadcommitted to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam: and Ishmael the son ofNethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to go over to theAmmonites.
41:11 But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of theforces that were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael the sonof Nethaniah had done, 
41:12 Then they took all the men, and went tofight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the greatwaters that are in Gibeon.
41:13 Now it came to pass, that when all the people which were withIshmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of theforces that were with him, then they were glad.
41:14 So all the people that Ishmael had carried away captive fromMizpah cast about and returned, and went unto Johanan the son ofKareah.
41:15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eightmen, and went to the Ammonites.
41:16 Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of theforces that were with him, all the remnant of the people whom he hadrecovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, after thathe had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, even mighty men of war, andthe women, and the children, and the eunuchs, whom he had broughtagain from Gibeon: 
41:17 And they departed, and dwelt in thehabitation of Chimham, which is by Bethlehem, to go to enter intoEgypt, 
41:18 Because of the Chaldeans: for they were afraid of them,because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah the son ofAhikam, whom the king of Babylon made governor in the land.
42:1 Then all the captains of the forces, and Johanan the son ofKareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from theleast even unto the greatest, came near, 
42:2 And said unto Jeremiahthe prophet, Let, we beseech thee, our supplication be accepted beforethee, and pray for us unto the LORD thy God, even for all thisremnant; (for we are left but a few of many, as thine eyes do beholdus:) 
42:3 That the LORD thy God may shew us the way wherein we maywalk, and the thing that we may do.
42:4 Then Jeremiah the prophet said unto them, I have heard you;behold, I will pray unto the LORD your God according to your words;and it shall come to pass, that whatsoever thing the LORD shall answeryou, I will declare it unto you; I will keep nothing back from you.
42:5 Then they said to Jeremiah, The LORD be a true and faithfulwitness between us, if we do not even according to all things for thewhich the LORD thy God shall send thee to us.
42:6 Whether it be good, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voiceof the LORD our God, to whom we send thee; that it may be well withus, when we obey the voice of the LORD our God.
42:7 And it came to pass after ten days, that the word of the LORDcame unto Jeremiah.
42:8 Then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains ofthe forces which were with him, and all the people from the least evento the greatest, 
42:9 And said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, the Godof Israel, unto whom ye sent me to present your supplication beforehim; 
42:10 If ye will still abide in this land, then will I build you,and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up: forI repent me of the evil that I have done unto you.
42:11 Be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom ye are afraid; benot afraid of him, saith the LORD: for I am with you to save you, andto deliver you from his hand.
42:12 And I will shew mercies unto you, that he may have mercy uponyou, and cause you to return to your own land.
42:13 But if ye say, We will not dwell in this land, neither obey thevoice of the LORD your God, 
42:14 Saying, No; but we will go into theland of Egypt, where we shall see no war, nor hear the sound of thetrumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and there will we dwell: 
42:15 Andnow therefore hear the word of the LORD, ye remnant of Judah; Thussaith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; If ye wholly set yourfaces to enter into Egypt, and go to sojourn there; 
42:16 Then itshall come to pass, that the sword, which ye feared, shall overtakeyou there in the land of Egypt, and the famine, whereof ye wereafraid, shall follow close after you there in Egypt; and there yeshall die.
42:17 So shall it be with all the men that set their faces to go intoEgypt to sojourn there; they shall die by the sword, by the famine,and by the pestilence: and none of them shall remain or escape fromthe evil that I will bring upon them.
42:18 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As mineanger and my fury hath been poured forth upon the inhabitants ofJerusalem; so shall my fury be poured forth upon you, when ye shallenter into Egypt: and ye shall be an execration, and an astonishment,and a curse, and a reproach; and ye shall see this place no more.
42:19 The LORD hath said concerning you, O ye remnant of Judah; Go yenot into Egypt: know certainly that I have admonished you this day.
42:20 For ye dissembled in your hearts, when ye sent me unto the LORDyour God, saying, Pray for us unto the LORD our God; and accordingunto all that the LORD our God shall say, so declare unto us, and wewill do it.
42:21 And now I have this day declared it to you; but ye have notobeyed the voice of the LORD your God, nor any thing for the which hehath sent me unto you.
42:22 Now therefore know certainly that ye shall die by the sword, bythe famine, and by the pestilence, in the place whither ye desire togo and to sojourn.
43:1 And it came to pass, that when Jeremiah had made an end ofspeaking unto all the people all the words of the LORD their God, forwhich the LORD their God had sent him to them, even all these words,
43:2 Then spake Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son ofKareah, and all the proud men, saying unto Jeremiah, Thou speakestfalsely: the LORD our God hath not sent thee to say, Go not into Egyptto sojourn there: 
43:3 But Baruch the son of Neriah setteth thee onagainst us, for to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, thatthey might put us to death, and carry us away captives into Babylon.
43:4 So Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces,and all the people, obeyed not the voice of the LORD, to dwell in theland of Judah.
43:5 But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of theforces, took all the remnant of Judah, that were returned from allnations, whither they had been driven, to dwell in the land of Judah;
43:6 Even men, and women, and children, and the king's daughters, andevery person that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left withGedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah theprophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah.
43:7 So they came into the land of Egypt: for they obeyed not thevoice of the LORD: thus came they even to Tahpanhes.
43:8 Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah in Tahpanhes,saying, 
43:9 Take great stones in thine hand, and hide them in theclay in the brickkiln, which is at the entry of Pharaoh's house inTahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah; 
43:10 And say unto them,Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will sendand take Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and will sethis throne upon these stones that I have hid; and he shall spread hisroyal pavilion over them.
43:11 And when he cometh, he shall smite the land of Egypt, anddeliver such as are for death to death; and such as are for captivityto captivity; and such as are for the sword to the sword.
43:12 And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt; andhe shall burn them, and carry them away captives: and he shall arrayhimself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd putteth on his garment;and he shall go forth from thence in peace.
43:13 He shall break also the images of Bethshemesh, that is in theland of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians shall heburn with fire.
44:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews whichdwell in the land of Egypt, which dwell at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes,and at Noph, and in the country of Pathros, saying, 
44:2 Thus saiththe LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Ye have seen all the evil that Ihave brought upon Jerusalem, and upon all the cities of Judah; and,behold, this day they are a desolation, and no man dwelleth therein,
44:3 Because of their wickedness which they have committed to provokeme to anger, in that they went to burn incense, and to serve othergods, whom they knew not, neither they, ye, nor your fathers.
44:4 Howbeit I sent unto you all my servants the prophets, risingearly and sending them, saying, Oh, do not this abominable thing thatI hate.
44:5 But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear to turn from theirwickedness, to burn no incense unto other gods.
44:6 Wherefore my fury and mine anger was poured forth, and waskindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; andthey are wasted and desolate, as at this day.
44:7 Therefore now thus saith the LORD, the God of hosts, the God ofIsrael; Wherefore commit ye this great evil against your souls, to cutoff from you man and woman, child and suckling, out of Judah, to leaveyou none to remain; 
44:8 In that ye provoke me unto wrath with theworks of your hands, burning incense unto other gods in the land ofEgypt, whither ye be gone to dwell, that ye might cut yourselves off,and that ye might be a curse and a reproach among all the nations ofthe earth?  
44:9 Have ye forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, andthe wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of theirwives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives,which they have committed in the land of Judah, and in the streets ofJerusalem?  
44:10 They are not humbled even unto this day, neitherhave they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I setbefore you and before your fathers.
44:11 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;Behold, I will set my face against you for evil, and to cut off allJudah.
44:12 And I will take the remnant of Judah, that have set their facesto go into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, and they shall all beconsumed, and fall in the land of Egypt; they shall even be consumedby the sword and by the famine: they shall die, from the least evenunto the greatest, by the sword and by the famine: and they shall bean execration, and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach.
44:13 For I will punish them that dwell in the land of Egypt, as Ihave punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by thepestilence: 
44:14 So that none of the remnant of Judah, which are goneinto the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall escape or remain, thatthey should return into the land of Judah, to the which they have adesire to return to dwell there: for none shall return but such asshall escape.
44:15 Then all the men which knew that their wives had burned incenseunto other gods, and all the women that stood by, a great multitude,even all the people that dwelt in the land of Egypt, in Pathros,answered Jeremiah, saying, 
44:16 As for the word that thou hast spokenunto us in the name of the LORD, we will not hearken unto thee.
44:17 But we will certainly do whatsoever thing goeth forth out of ourown mouth, to burn incense unto the queen of heaven, and to pour outdrink offerings unto her, as we have done, we, and our fathers, ourkings, and our princes, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets ofJerusalem: for then had we plenty of victuals, and were well, and sawno evil.
44:18 But since we left off to burn incense to the queen of heaven,and to pour out drink offerings unto her, we have wanted all things,and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine.
44:19 And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and pouredout drink offerings unto her, did we make her cakes to worship her,and pour out drink offerings unto her, without our men?  
44:20 ThenJeremiah said unto all the people, to the men, and to the women, andto all the people which had given him that answer, saying, 
44:21 Theincense that ye burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets ofJerusalem, ye, and your fathers, your kings, and your princes, and thepeople of the land, did not the LORD remember them, and came it notinto his mind?  
44:22 So that the LORD could no longer bear, becauseof the evil of your doings, and because of the abominations which yehave committed; therefore is your land a desolation, and anastonishment, and a curse, without an inhabitant, as at this day.
44:23 Because ye have burned incense, and because ye have sinnedagainst the LORD, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, norwalked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies;therefore this evil is happened unto you, as at this day.
44:24 Moreover Jeremiah said unto all the people, and to all thewomen, Hear the word of the LORD, all Judah that are in the land ofEgypt: 
44:25 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying;Ye and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and fulfilledwith your hand, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we havevowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drinkofferings unto her: ye will surely accomplish your vows, and surelyperform your vows.
44:26 Therefore hear ye the word of the LORD, all Judah that dwell inthe land of Egypt; Behold, I have sworn by my great name, saith theLORD, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man ofJudah in all the land of Egypt, saying, The Lord GOD liveth.
44:27 Behold, I will watch over them for evil, and not for good: andall the men of Judah that are in the land of Egypt shall be consumedby the sword and by the famine, until there be an end of them.
44:28 Yet a small number that escape the sword shall return out of theland of Egypt into the land of Judah, and all the remnant of Judah,that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall knowwhose words shall stand, mine, or their's.
44:29 And this shall be a sign unto you, saith the LORD, that I willpunish you in this place, that ye may know that my words shall surelystand against you for evil: 
44:30 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I willgive Pharaohhophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, andinto the hand of them that seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah king ofJudah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, his enemy, andthat sought his life.
45:1 The word that Jeremiah the prophet spake unto Baruch the son ofNeriah, when he had written these words in a book at the mouth ofJeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king ofJudah, saying, 
45:2 Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, unto thee,O Baruch: 
45:3 Thou didst say, Woe is me now! for the LORD hath addedgrief to my sorrow; I fainted in my sighing, and I find no rest.
45:4 Thus shalt thou say unto him, The LORD saith thus; Behold, thatwhich I have built will I break down, and that which I have planted Iwill pluck up, even this whole land.
45:5 And seekest thou great things for thyself? seek them not: for,behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, saith the LORD: but thy lifewill I give unto thee for a prey in all places whither thou goest.
46:1 The word of the LORD which came to Jeremiah the prophet againstthe Gentiles; 
46:2 Against Egypt, against the army of Pharaohnechoking of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, whichNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote in the fourth year of Jehoiakimthe son of Josiah king of Judah.
46:3 Order ye the buckler and shield, and draw near to battle.
46:4 Harness the horses; and get up, ye horsemen, and stand forth withyour helmets; furbish the spears, and put on the brigandines.
46:5 Wherefore have I seen them dismayed and turned away back? andtheir mighty ones are beaten down, and are fled apace, and look notback: for fear was round about, saith the LORD.
46:6 Let not the swift flee away, nor the mighty man escape; theyshall stumble, and fall toward the north by the river Euphrates.
46:7 Who is this that cometh up as a flood, whose waters are moved asthe rivers?  
46:8 Egypt riseth up like a flood, and his waters aremoved like the rivers; and he saith, I will go up, and will cover theearth; I will destroy the city and the inhabitants thereof.
46:9 Come up, ye horses; and rage, ye chariots; and let the mighty mencome forth; the Ethiopians and the Libyans, that handle the shield;and the Lydians, that handle and bend the bow.
46:10 For this is the day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day ofvengeance, that he may avenge him of his adversaries: and the swordshall devour, and it shall be satiate and made drunk with their blood:for the Lord GOD of hosts hath a sacrifice in the north country by theriver Euphrates.
46:11 Go up into Gilead, and take balm, O virgin, the daughter ofEgypt: in vain shalt thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not becured.
46:12 The nations have heard of thy shame, and thy cry hath filled theland: for the mighty man hath stumbled against the mighty, and theyare fallen both together.
46:13 The word that the LORD spake to Jeremiah the prophet, howNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon should come and smite the land ofEgypt.
46:14 Declare ye in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Nophand in Tahpanhes: say ye, Stand fast, and prepare thee; for the swordshall devour round about thee.
46:15 Why are thy valiant men swept away? they stood not, because theLORD did drive them.
46:16 He made many to fall, yea, one fell upon another: and they said,Arise, and let us go again to our own people, and to the land of ournativity, from the oppressing sword.
46:17 They did cry there, Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a noise; hehath passed the time appointed.
46:18 As I live, saith the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts,Surely as Tabor is among the mountains, and as Carmel by the sea, soshall he come.
46:19 O thou daughter dwelling in Egypt, furnish thyself to go intocaptivity: for Noph shall be waste and desolate without an inhabitant.
46:20 Egypt is like a very fair heifer, but destruction cometh; itcometh out of the north.
46:21 Also her hired men are in the midst of her like fatted bullocks;for they also are turned back, and are fled away together: they didnot stand, because the day of their calamity was come upon them, andthe time of their visitation.
46:22 The voice thereof shall go like a serpent; for they shall marchwith an army, and come against her with axes, as hewers of wood.
46:23 They shall cut down her forest, saith the LORD, though it cannotbe searched; because they are more than the grasshoppers, and areinnumerable.
46:24 The daughter of Egypt shall be confounded; she shall bedelivered into the hand of the people of the north.
46:25 The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saith; Behold, I willpunish the multitude of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with their gods,and their kings; even Pharaoh, and all them that trust in him: 
46:26 And I will deliver them into the hand of those that seek their lives,and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the handof his servants: and afterward it shall be inhabited, as in the daysof old, saith the LORD.
46:27 But fear not thou, O my servant Jacob, and be not dismayed, OIsrael: for, behold, I will save thee from afar off, and thy seed fromthe land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and be in restand at ease, and none shall make him afraid.
46:28 Fear thou not, O Jacob my servant, saith the LORD: for I am withthee; for I will make a full end of all the nations whither I havedriven thee: but I will not make a full end of thee, but correct theein measure; yet will I not leave thee wholly unpunished.
47:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet againstthe Philistines, before that Pharaoh smote Gaza.
47:2 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, waters rise up out of the north, andshall be an overflowing flood, and shall overflow the land, and allthat is therein; the city, and them that dwell therein: then the menshall cry, and all the inhabitants of the land shall howl.
47:3 At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his strong horses,at the rushing of his chariots, and at the rumbling of his wheels, thefathers shall not look back to their children for feebleness of hands;
47:4 Because of the day that cometh to spoil all the Philistines, andto cut off from Tyrus and Zidon every helper that remaineth: for theLORD will spoil the Philistines, the remnant of the country ofCaphtor.
47:5 Baldness is come upon Gaza; Ashkelon is cut off with the remnantof their valley: how long wilt thou cut thyself?  
47:6 O thou sword ofthe LORD, how long will it be ere thou be quiet? put up thyself intothy scabbard, rest, and be still.
47:7 How can it be quiet, seeing the LORD hath given it a chargeagainst Ashkelon, and against the sea shore? there hath he appointedit.
48:1 Against Moab thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Woeunto Nebo! for it is spoiled: Kiriathaim is confounded and taken:Misgab is confounded and dismayed.
48:2 There shall be no more praise of Moab: in Heshbon they havedevised evil against it; come, and let us cut it off from being anation. Also thou shalt be cut down, O Madmen; the sword shall pursuethee.
48:3 A voice of crying shall be from Horonaim, spoiling and greatdestruction.
48:4 Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.
48:5 For in the going up of Luhith continual weeping shall go up; forin the going down of Horonaim the enemies have heard a cry ofdestruction.
48:6 Flee, save your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.
48:7 For because thou hast trusted in thy works and in thy treasures,thou shalt also be taken: and Chemosh shall go forth into captivitywith his priests and his princes together.
48:8 And the spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shallescape: the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall bedestroyed, as the LORD hath spoken.
48:9 Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for thecities thereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein.
48:10 Cursed be he that doeth the work of the LORD deceitfully, andcursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood.
48:11 Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled onhis lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neitherhath he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, andhis scent is not changed.
48:12 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I willsend unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander, and shallempty his vessels, and break their bottles.
48:13 And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel wasashamed of Bethel their confidence.
48:14 How say ye, We are mighty and strong men for the war?  
48:15 Moab is spoiled, and gone up out of her cities, and his chosen youngmen are gone down to the slaughter, saith the King, whose name is theLORD of hosts.
48:16 The calamity of Moab is near to come, and his affliction hastethfast.
48:17 All ye that are about him, bemoan him; and all ye that know hisname, say, How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod!
48:18 Thou daughter that dost inhabit Dibon, come down from thy glory,and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon thee, andhe shall destroy thy strong holds.
48:19 O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and espy; ask him thatfleeth, and her that escapeth, and say, What is done?  
48:20 Moab isconfounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; tell ye it in Arnon,that Moab is spoiled, 
48:21 And judgment is come upon the plaincountry; upon Holon, and upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath, 
48:22 Andupon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon Bethdiblathaim, 
48:23 And uponKiriathaim, and upon Bethgamul, and upon Bethmeon, 
48:24 And uponKerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of the land of Moab,far or near.
48:25 The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, saith theLORD.
48:26 Make ye him drunken: for he magnified himself against the LORD:Moab also shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision.
48:27 For was not Israel a derision unto thee? was he found amongthieves?  for since thou spakest of him, thou skippedst for joy.
48:28 O ye that dwell in Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in therock, and be like the dove that maketh her nest in the sides of thehole's mouth.
48:29 We have heard the pride of Moab, (he is exceeding proud) hisloftiness, and his arrogancy, and his pride, and the haughtiness ofhis heart.
48:30 I know his wrath, saith the LORD; but it shall not be so; hislies shall not so effect it.
48:31 Therefore will I howl for Moab, and I will cry out for all Moab;mine heart shall mourn for the men of Kirheres.
48:32 O vine of Sibmah, I will weep for thee with the weeping ofJazer: thy plants are gone over the sea, they reach even to the sea ofJazer: the spoiler is fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thyvintage.
48:33 And joy and gladness is taken from the plentiful field, and fromthe land of Moab, and I have caused wine to fail from the winepresses:none shall tread with shouting; their shouting shall be no shouting.
48:34 From the cry of Heshbon even unto Elealeh, and even unto Jahaz,have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even unto Horonaim, as anheifer of three years old: for the waters also of Nimrim shall bedesolate.
48:35 Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, saith the LORD, him thatoffereth in the high places, and him that burneth incense to his gods.
48:36 Therefore mine heart shall sound for Moab like pipes, and mineheart shall sound like pipes for the men of Kirheres: because theriches that he hath gotten are perished.
48:37 For every head shall be bald, and every beard clipped: upon allthe hands shall be cuttings, and upon the loins sackcloth.
48:38 There shall be lamentation generally upon all the housetops ofMoab, and in the streets thereof: for I have broken Moab like a vesselwherein is no pleasure, saith the LORD.
48:39 They shall howl, saying, How is it broken down! how hath Moabturned the back with shame! so shall Moab be a derision and adismaying to all them about him.
48:40 For thus saith the LORD; Behold, he shall fly as an eagle, andshall spread his wings over Moab.
48:41 Kerioth is taken, and the strong holds are surprised, and themighty men's hearts in Moab at that day shall be as the heart of awoman in her pangs.
48:42 And Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, because he hathmagnified himself against the LORD.
48:43 Fear, and the pit, and the snare, shall be upon thee, Oinhabitant of Moab, saith the LORD.
48:44 He that fleeth from the fear shall fall into the pit; and hethat getteth up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for I willbring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation, saith theLORD.
48:45 They that fled stood under the shadow of Heshbon because of theforce: but a fire shall come forth out of Heshbon, and a flame fromthe midst of Sihon, and shall devour the corner of Moab, and the crownof the head of the tumultuous ones.
48:46 Woe be unto thee, O Moab! the people of Chemosh perisheth: forthy sons are taken captives, and thy daughters captives.
48:47 Yet will I bring again the captivity of Moab in the latter days,saith the LORD. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.
49:1 Concerning the Ammonites, thus saith the LORD; Hath Israel nosons?  hath he no heir? why then doth their king inherit Gad, and hispeople dwell in his cities?  
49:2 Therefore, behold, the days come,saith the LORD, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard inRabbah of the Ammonites; and it shall be a desolate heap, and herdaughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel be heir untothem that were his heirs, saith the LORD.
49:3 Howl, O Heshbon, for Ai is spoiled: cry, ye daughters of Rabbah,gird you with sackcloth; lament, and run to and fro by the hedges; fortheir king shall go into captivity, and his priests and his princestogether.
49:4 Wherefore gloriest thou in the valleys, thy flowing valley, Obacksliding daughter? that trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shallcome unto me?  
49:5 Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, saith theLord GOD of hosts, from all those that be about thee; and ye shall bedriven out every man right forth; and none shall gather up him thatwandereth.
49:6 And afterward I will bring again the captivity of the children ofAmmon, saith the LORD.
49:7 Concerning Edom, thus saith the LORD of hosts; Is wisdom no morein Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdomvanished?  
49:8 Flee ye, turn back, dwell deep, O inhabitants ofDedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that Iwill visit him.
49:9 If grapegatherers come to thee, would they not leave somegleaning grapes? if thieves by night, they will destroy till they haveenough.
49:10 But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places,and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is spoiled, and hisbrethren, and his neighbours, and he is not.
49:11 Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; andlet thy widows trust in me.
49:12 For thus saith the LORD; Behold, they whose judgment was not todrink of the cup have assuredly drunken; and art thou he that shallaltogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shaltsurely drink of it.
49:13 For I have sworn by myself, saith the LORD, that Bozrah shallbecome a desolation, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all thecities thereof shall be perpetual wastes.
49:14 I have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sentunto the heathen, saying, Gather ye together, and come against her,and rise up to the battle.
49:15 For, lo, I will make thee small among the heathen, and despisedamong men.
49:16 Thy terribleness hath deceived thee, and the pride of thineheart, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdestthe height of the hill: though thou shouldest make thy nest as high asthe eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith the LORD.
49:17 Also Edom shall be a desolation: every one that goeth by itshall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof.
49:18 As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbourcities thereof, saith the LORD, no man shall abide there, neithershall a son of man dwell in it.
49:19 Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordanagainst the habitation of the strong: but I will suddenly make him runaway from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her?for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is thatshepherd that will stand before me?  
49:20 Therefore hear the counselof the LORD, that he hath taken against Edom; and his purposes, thathe hath purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely the least ofthe flock shall draw them out: surely he shall make their habitationsdesolate with them.
49:21 The earth is moved at the noise of their fall, at the cry thenoise thereof was heard in the Red sea.
49:22 Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread hiswings over Bozrah: and at that day shall the heart of the mighty menof Edom be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
49:23 Concerning Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad: for theyhave heard evil tidings: they are fainthearted; there is sorrow on thesea; it cannot be quiet.
49:24 Damascus is waxed feeble, and turneth herself to flee, and fearhath seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken her, as a woman intravail.
49:25 How is the city of praise not left, the city of my joy!  
49:26 Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men ofwar shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD of hosts.
49:27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shallconsume the palaces of Benhadad.
49:28 Concerning Kedar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, whichNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon shall smite, thus saith the LORD; Ariseye, go up to Kedar, and spoil the men of the east.
49:29 Their tents and their flocks shall they take away: they shalltake to themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and theircamels; and they shall cry unto them, Fear is on every side.
49:30 Flee, get you far off, dwell deep, O ye inhabitants of Hazor,saith the LORD; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counselagainst you, and hath conceived a purpose against you.
49:31 Arise, get you up unto the wealthy nation, that dwelleth withoutcare, saith the LORD, which have neither gates nor bars, which dwellalone.
49:32 And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of theircattle a spoil: and I will scatter into all winds them that are in theutmost corners; and I will bring their calamity from all sidesthereof, saith the LORD.
49:33 And Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons, and a desolation forever: there shall no man abide there, nor any son of man dwell in it.
49:34 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet againstElam in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
49:35 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will break the bow ofElam, the chief of their might.
49:36 And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quartersof heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and thereshall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
49:37 For I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, andbefore them that seek their life: and I will bring evil upon them,even my fierce anger, saith the LORD; and I will send the sword afterthem, till I have consumed them: 
49:38 And I will set my throne inElam, and will destroy from thence the king and the princes, saith theLORD.
49:39 But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bringagain the captivity of Elam, saith the LORD.
50:1 The word that the LORD spake against Babylon and against the landof the Chaldeans by Jeremiah the prophet.
50:2 Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard;publish, and conceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is confounded,Merodach is broken in pieces; her idols are confounded, her images arebroken in pieces.
50:3 For out of the north there cometh up a nation against her, whichshall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they shallremove, they shall depart, both man and beast.
50:4 In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the children ofIsrael shall come, they and the children of Judah together, going andweeping: they shall go, and seek the LORD their God.
50:5 They shall ask the way to Zion with their faces thitherward,saying, Come, and let us join ourselves to the LORD in a perpetualcovenant that shall not be forgotten.
50:6 My people hath been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused themto go astray, they have turned them away on the mountains: they havegone from mountain to hill, they have forgotten their restingplace.
50:7 All that found them have devoured them: and their adversariessaid, We offend not, because they have sinned against the LORD, thehabitation of justice, even the LORD, the hope of their fathers.
50:8 Remove out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the landof the Chaldeans, and be as the he goats before the flocks.
50:9 For, lo, I will raise and cause to come up against Babylon anassembly of great nations from the north country: and they shall setthemselves in array against her; from thence she shall be taken: theirarrows shall be as of a mighty expert man; none shall return in vain.
50:10 And Chaldea shall be a spoil: all that spoil her shall besatisfied, saith the LORD.
50:11 Because ye were glad, because ye rejoiced, O ye destroyers ofmine heritage, because ye are grown fat as the heifer at grass, andbellow as bulls; 
50:12 Your mother shall be sore confounded; she thatbare you shall be ashamed: behold, the hindermost of the nations shallbe a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
50:13 Because of the wrath of the LORD it shall not be inhabited, butit shall be wholly desolate: every one that goeth by Babylon shall beastonished, and hiss at all her plagues.
50:14 Put yourselves in array against Babylon round about: all ye thatbend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she hath sinnedagainst the LORD.
50:15 Shout against her round about: she hath given her hand: herfoundations are fallen, her walls are thrown down: for it is thevengeance of the LORD: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, dounto her.
50:16 Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sicklein the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shallturn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his ownland.
50:17 Israel is a scattered sheep; the lions have driven him away:first the king of Assyria hath devoured him; and last thisNebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones.
50:18 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I havepunished the king of Assyria.
50:19 And I will bring Israel again to his habitation, and he shallfeed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon mountEphraim and Gilead.
50:20 In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the iniquity ofIsrael shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins ofJudah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom Ireserve.
50:21 Go up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, andagainst the inhabitants of Pekod: waste and utterly destroy afterthem, saith the LORD, and do according to all that I have commandedthee.
50:22 A sound of battle is in the land, and of great destruction.
50:23 How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! howis Babylon become a desolation among the nations!  
50:24 I have laid asnare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast notaware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou hast strivenagainst the LORD.
50:25 The LORD hath opened his armoury, and hath brought forth theweapons of his indignation: for this is the work of the Lord GOD ofhosts in the land of the Chaldeans.
50:26 Come against her from the utmost border, open her storehouses:cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly: let nothing of her beleft.
50:27 Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woeunto them! for their day is come, the time of their visitation.
50:28 The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land ofBabylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, thevengeance of his temple.
50:29 Call together the archers against Babylon: all ye that bend thebow, camp against it round about; let none thereof escape: recompenseher according to her work; according to all that she hath done, dounto her: for she hath been proud against the LORD, against the HolyOne of Israel.
50:30 Therefore shall her young men fall in the streets, and all hermen of war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD.
50:31 Behold, I am against thee, O thou most proud, saith the Lord GODof hosts: for thy day is come, the time that I will visit thee.
50:32 And the most proud shall stumble and fall, and none shall raisehim up: and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devourall round about him.
50:33 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The children of Israel and thechildren of Judah were oppressed together: and all that took themcaptives held them fast; they refused to let them go.
50:34 Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name: heshall throughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the land,and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.
50:35 A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith the LORD, and upon theinhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise men.
50:36 A sword is upon the liars; and they shall dote: a sword is uponher mighty men; and they shall be dismayed.
50:37 A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and uponall the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and they shallbecome as women: a sword is upon her treasures; and they shall berobbed.
50:38 A drought is upon her waters; and they shall be dried up: for itis the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols.
50:39 Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts ofthe islands shall dwell there, and the owls shall dwell therein: andit shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be dwelt infrom generation to generation.
50:40 As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbour citiesthereof, saith the LORD; so shall no man abide there, neither shallany son of man dwell therein.
50:41 Behold, a people shall come from the north, and a great nation,and many kings shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth.
50:42 They shall hold the bow and the lance: they are cruel, and willnot shew mercy: their voice shall roar like the sea, and they shallride upon horses, every one put in array, like a man to the battle,against thee, O daughter of Babylon.
50:43 The king of Babylon hath heard the report of them, and his handswaxed feeble: anguish took hold of him, and pangs as of a woman intravail.
50:44 Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordanunto the habitation of the strong: but I will make them suddenly runaway from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her?for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is thatshepherd that will stand before me?  
50:45 Therefore hear ye thecounsel of the LORD, that he hath taken against Babylon; and hispurposes, that he hath purposed against the land of the Chaldeans:Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out: surely he shallmake their habitation desolate with them.
50:46 At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth is moved, andthe cry is heard among the nations.
51:1 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, andagainst them that dwell in the midst of them that rise up against me,a destroying wind; 
51:2 And will send unto Babylon fanners, that shallfan her, and shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble theyshall be against her round about.
51:3 Against him that bendeth let the archer bend his bow, and againsthim that lifteth himself up in his brigandine: and spare ye not heryoung men; destroy ye utterly all her host.
51:4 Thus the slain shall fall in the land of the Chaldeans, and theythat are thrust through in her streets.
51:5 For Israel hath not been forsaken, nor Judah of his God, of theLORD of hosts; though their land was filled with sin against the HolyOne of Israel.
51:6 Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and deliver every man his soul:be not cut off in her iniquity; for this is the time of the LORD'svengeance; he will render unto her a recompence.
51:7 Babylon hath been a golden cup in the LORD's hand, that made allthe earth drunken: the nations have drunken of her wine; therefore thenations are mad.
51:8 Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: howl for her; take balmfor her pain, if so be she may be healed.
51:9 We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed: forsake her,and let us go every one into his own country: for her judgmentreacheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.
51:10 The LORD hath brought forth our righteousness: come, and let usdeclare in Zion the work of the LORD our God.
51:11 Make bright the arrows; gather the shields: the LORD hath raisedup the spirit of the kings of the Medes: for his device is againstBabylon, to destroy it; because it is the vengeance of the LORD, thevengeance of his temple.
51:12 Set up the standard upon the walls of Babylon, make the watchstrong, set up the watchmen, prepare the ambushes: for the LORD hathboth devised and done that which he spake against the inhabitants ofBabylon.
51:13 O thou that dwellest upon many waters, abundant in treasures,thine end is come, and the measure of thy covetousness.
51:14 The LORD of hosts hath sworn by himself, saying, Surely I willfill thee with men, as with caterpillers; and they shall lift up ashout against thee.
51:15 He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established theworld by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heaven by hisunderstanding.
51:16 When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters inthe heavens; and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of theearth: he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth the wind outof his treasures.
51:17 Every man is brutish by his knowledge; every founder isconfounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, andthere is no breath in them.
51:18 They are vanity, the work of errors: in the time of theirvisitation they shall perish.
51:19 The portion of Jacob is not like them; for he is the former ofall things: and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: the LORD ofhosts is his name.
51:20 Thou art my battle axe and weapons of war: for with thee will Ibreak in pieces the nations, and with thee will I destroy kingdoms;
51:21 And with thee will I break in pieces the horse and his rider;and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and his rider; 
51:22 With thee also will I break in pieces man and woman; and with theewill I break in pieces old and young; and with thee will I break inpieces the young man and the maid; 
51:23 I will also break in pieceswith thee the shepherd and his flock; and with thee will I break inpieces the husbandman and his yoke of oxen; and with thee will I breakin pieces captains and rulers.
51:24 And I will render unto Babylon and to all the inhabitants ofChaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight,saith the LORD.
51:25 Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain, saith theLORD, which destroyest all the earth: and I will stretch out mine handupon thee, and roll thee down from the rocks, and will make thee aburnt mountain.
51:26 And they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor astone for foundations; but thou shalt be desolate for ever, saith theLORD.
51:27 Set ye up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among thenations, prepare the nations against her, call together against herthe kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashchenaz; appoint a captainagainst her; cause the horses to come up as the rough caterpillers.
51:28 Prepare against her the nations with the kings of the Medes, thecaptains thereof, and all the rulers thereof, and all the land of hisdominion.
51:29 And the land shall tremble and sorrow: for every purpose of theLORD shall be performed against Babylon, to make the land of Babylon adesolation without an inhabitant.
51:30 The mighty men of Babylon have forborn to fight, they haveremained in their holds: their might hath failed; they became aswomen: they have burned her dwellingplaces; her bars are broken.
51:31 One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger to meetanother, to shew the king of Babylon that his city is taken at oneend, 
51:32 And that the passages are stopped, and the reeds they haveburned with fire, and the men of war are affrighted.
51:33 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Thedaughter of Babylon is like a threshingfloor, it is time to threshher: yet a little while, and the time of her harvest shall come.
51:34 Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon hath devoured me, he hathcrushed me, he hath made me an empty vessel, he hath swallowed me uplike a dragon, he hath filled his belly with my delicates, he hathcast me out.
51:35 The violence done to me and to my flesh be upon Babylon, shallthe inhabitant of Zion say; and my blood upon the inhabitants ofChaldea, shall Jerusalem say.
51:36 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will plead thy cause,and take vengeance for thee; and I will dry up her sea, and make hersprings dry.
51:37 And Babylon shall become heaps, a dwellingplace for dragons, anastonishment, and an hissing, without an inhabitant.
51:38 They shall roar together like lions: they shall yell as lions'whelps.
51:39 In their heat I will make their feasts, and I will make themdrunken, that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and notwake, saith the LORD.
51:40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like ramswith he goats.
51:41 How is Sheshach taken! and how is the praise of the whole earthsurprised! how is Babylon become an astonishment among the nations!
51:42 The sea is come up upon Babylon: she is covered with themultitude of the waves thereof.
51:43 Her cities are a desolation, a dry land, and a wilderness, aland wherein no man dwelleth, neither doth any son of man passthereby.
51:44 And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out ofhis mouth that which he hath swallowed up: and the nations shall notflow together any more unto him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall.
51:45 My people, go ye out of the midst of her, and deliver ye everyman his soul from the fierce anger of the LORD.
51:46 And lest your heart faint, and ye fear for the rumour that shallbe heard in the land; a rumour shall both come one year, and afterthat in another year shall come a rumour, and violence in the land,ruler against ruler.
51:47 Therefore, behold, the days come, that I will do judgment uponthe graven images of Babylon: and her whole land shall be confounded,and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
51:48 Then the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein, shallsing for Babylon: for the spoilers shall come unto her from the north,saith the LORD.
51:49 As Babylon hath caused the slain of Israel to fall, so atBabylon shall fall the slain of all the earth.
51:50 Ye that have escaped the sword, go away, stand not still:remember the LORD afar off, and let Jerusalem come into your mind.
51:51 We are confounded, because we have heard reproach: shame hathcovered our faces: for strangers are come into the sanctuaries of theLORD's house.
51:52 Wherefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will dojudgment upon her graven images: and through all her land the woundedshall groan.
51:53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she shouldfortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall spoilers comeunto her, saith the LORD.
51:54 A sound of a cry cometh from Babylon, and great destruction fromthe land of the Chaldeans: 
51:55 Because the LORD hath spoiledBabylon, and destroyed out of her the great voice; when her waves doroar like great waters, a noise of their voice is uttered: 
51:56 Because the spoiler is come upon her, even upon Babylon, and hermighty men are taken, every one of their bows is broken: for the LORDGod of recompences shall surely requite.
51:57 And I will make drunk her princes, and her wise men, hercaptains, and her rulers, and her mighty men: and they shall sleep aperpetual sleep, and not wake, saith the King, whose name is the LORDof hosts.
51:58 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The broad walls of Babylon shallbe utterly broken, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; andthe people shall labour in vain, and the folk in the fire, and theyshall be weary.
51:59 The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son ofNeriah, the son of Maaseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the king ofJudah into Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. And this Seraiahwas a quiet prince.
51:60 So Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come uponBabylon, even all these words that are written against Babylon.
51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When thou comest to Babylon, andshalt see, and shalt read all these words; 
51:62 Then shalt thou say,O LORD, thou hast spoken against this place, to cut it off, that noneshall remain in it, neither man nor beast, but that it shall bedesolate for ever.
51:63 And it shall be, when thou hast made an end of reading thisbook, that thou shalt bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midstof Euphrates: 
51:64 And thou shalt say, Thus shall Babylon sink, andshall not rise from the evil that I will bring upon her: and theyshall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.
52:1 Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign, andhe reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name wasHamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
52:2 And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD, accordingto all that Jehoiakim had done.
52:3 For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalemand Judah, till he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiahrebelled against the king of Babylon.
52:4 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenthmonth, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadrezzar king ofBabylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and pitchedagainst it, and built forts against it round about.
52:5 So the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.
52:6 And in the fourth month, in the ninth day of the month, thefamine was sore in the city, so that there was no bread for the peopleof the land.
52:7 Then the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled, andwent forth out of the city by night by the way of the gate between thetwo walls, which was by the king's garden; (now the Chaldeans were bythe city round about:) and they went by the way of the plain.
52:8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, andovertook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army wasscattered from him.
52:9 Then they took the king, and carried him up unto the king ofBabylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; where he gave judgment uponhim.
52:10 And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah before hiseyes: he slew also all the princes of Judah in Riblah.
52:11 Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Babylonbound him in chains, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prisontill the day of his death.
52:12 Now in the fifth month, in the tenth day of the month, which wasthe nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, cameNebuzaradan, captain of the guard, which served the king of Babylon,into Jerusalem, 
52:13 And burned the house of the LORD, and the king'shouse; and all the houses of Jerusalem, and all the houses of thegreat men, burned he with fire: 
52:14 And all the army of theChaldeans, that were with the captain of the guard, brake down all thewalls of Jerusalem round about.
52:15 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captivecertain of the poor of the people, and the residue of the people thatremained in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to the kingof Babylon, and the rest of the multitude.
52:16 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left certain of thepoor of the land for vinedressers and for husbandmen.
52:17 Also the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD,and the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD,the Chaldeans brake, and carried all the brass of them to Babylon.
52:18 The caldrons also, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and thebowls, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith theyministered, took they away.
52:19 And the basons, and the firepans, and the bowls, and thecaldrons, and the candlesticks, and the spoons, and the cups; thatwhich was of gold in gold, and that which was of silver in silver,took the captain of the guard away.
52:20 The two pillars, one sea, and twelve brasen bulls that wereunder the bases, which king Solomon had made in the house of the LORD:the brass of all these vessels was without weight.
52:21 And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar waseighteen cubits; and a fillet of twelve cubits did compass it; and thethickness thereof was four fingers: it was hollow.
52:22 And a chapiter of brass was upon it; and the height of onechapiter was five cubits, with network and pomegranates upon thechapiters round about, all of brass. The second pillar also and thepomegranates were like unto these.
52:23 And there were ninety and six pomegranates on a side; and allthe pomegranates upon the network were an hundred round about.
52:24 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, andZephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door: 
52:25 He took also out of the city an eunuch, which had the charge of themen of war; and seven men of them that were near the king's person,which were found in the city; and the principal scribe of the host,who mustered the people of the land; and threescore men of the peopleof the land, that were found in the midst of the city.
52:26 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and broughtthem to the king of Babylon to Riblah.
52:27 And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death inRiblah in the land of Hamath. Thus Judah was carried away captive outof his own land.
52:28 This is the people whom Nebuchadrezzar carried away captive: inthe seventh year three thousand Jews and three and twenty: 
52:29 Inthe eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar he carried away captive fromJerusalem eight hundred thirty and two persons: 
52:30 In the three andtwentieth year of Nebuchadrezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guardcarried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty and five persons:all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.
52:31 And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of thecaptivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, in thefive and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Babylonin the first year of his reign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin kingof Judah, and brought him forth out of prison.
52:32 And spake kindly unto him, and set his throne above the throneof the kings that were with him in Babylon, 
52:33 And changed hisprison garments: and he did continually eat bread before him all thedays of his life.
52:34 And for his diet, there was a continual diet given him of theking of Babylon, every day a portion until the day of his death, allthe days of his life.