1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.
1:2 Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land.Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?  
1:3 Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell theirchildren, and their children another generation.
1:4 That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; andthat which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and thatwhich the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpiller eaten.
1:5 Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of wine,because of the new wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.
1:6 For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number,whose teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of agreat lion.
1:7 He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath madeit clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white.
1:8 Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of heryouth.
1:9 The meat offering and the drink offering is cut off from the houseof the LORD; the priests, the LORD's ministers, mourn.
1:10 The field is wasted, the land mourneth; for the corn is wasted:the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.
1:11 Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen; howl, O ye vinedressers, for thewheat and for the barley; because the harvest of the field isperished.
1:12 The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth; thepomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all thetrees of the field, are withered: because joy is withered away fromthe sons of men.
1:13 Gird yourselves, and lament, ye priests: howl, ye ministers ofthe altar: come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God:for the meat offering and the drink offering is withholden from thehouse of your God.
1:14 Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders andall the inhabitants of the land into the house of the LORD your God,and cry unto the LORD, 
1:15 Alas for the day! for the day of the LORDis at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come.
1:16 Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladnessfrom the house of our God?  
1:17 The seed is rotten under their clods,the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the cornis withered.
1:18 How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed,because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are madedesolate.
1:19 O LORD, to thee will I cry: for the fire hath devoured thepastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees ofthe field.
1:20 The beasts of the field cry also unto thee: for the rivers ofwaters are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of thewilderness.
2:1 Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holymountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day ofthe LORD cometh, for it is nigh at hand; 
2:2 A day of darkness and ofgloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morningspread upon the mountains: a great people and a strong; there hath notbeen ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to theyears of many generations.
2:3 A fire devoureth before them; and behind them a flame burneth: theland is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolatewilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them.
2:4 The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and ashorsemen, so shall they run.
2:5 Like the noise of chariots on the tops of mountains shall theyleap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, asa strong people set in battle array.
2:6 Before their face the people shall be much pained: all faces shallgather blackness.
2:7 They shall run like mighty men; they shall climb the wall like menof war; and they shall march every one on his ways, and they shall notbreak their ranks: 
2:8 Neither shall one thrust another; they shallwalk every one in his path: and when they fall upon the sword, theyshall not be wounded.
2:9 They shall run to and fro in the city; they shall run upon thewall, they shall climb up upon the houses; they shall enter in at thewindows like a thief.
2:10 The earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall tremble: thesun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw theirshining: 
2:11 And the LORD shall utter his voice before his army: forhis camp is very great: for he is strong that executeth his word: forthe day of the LORD is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?
2:12 Therefore also now, saith the LORD, turn ye even to me with allyour heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning:
2:13 And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto theLORD your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and ofgreat kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.
2:14 Who knoweth if he will return and repent, and leave a blessingbehind him; even a meat offering and a drink offering unto the LORDyour God?  
2:15 Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call asolemn assembly: 
2:16 Gather the people, sanctify the congregation,assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck thebreasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride outof her closet.
2:17 Let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep between theporch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O LORD, andgive not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule overthem: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their God?
2:18 Then will the LORD be jealous for his land, and pity his people.
2:19 Yea, the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I willsend you corn, and wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith:and I will no more make you a reproach among the heathen: 
2:20 But Iwill remove far off from you the northern army, and will drive himinto a land barren and desolate, with his face toward the east sea,and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink shall comeup, and his ill savour shall come up, because he hath done greatthings.
2:21 Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the LORD will do greatthings.
2:22 Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of thewilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree andthe vine do yield their strength.
2:23 Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD yourGod: for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he willcause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latterrain in the first month.
2:24 And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shalloverflow with wine and oil.
2:25 And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten,the cankerworm, and the caterpiller, and the palmerworm, my great armywhich I sent among you.
2:26 And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and praise the nameof the LORD your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and mypeople shall never be ashamed.
2:27 And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I amthe LORD your God, and none else: and my people shall never beashamed.
2:28 And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out myspirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shallprophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall seevisions: 
2:29 And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids inthose days will I pour out my spirit.
2:30 And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood,and fire, and pillars of smoke.
2:31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,before the great and terrible day of the LORD come.
2:32 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the nameof the LORD shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalemshall be deliverance, as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whomthe LORD shall call.
3:1 For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall bringagain the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, 
3:2 I will also gather allnations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, andwill plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel,whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted my land.
3:3 And they have cast lots for my people; and have given a boy for anharlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they might drink.
3:4 Yea, and what have ye to do with me, O Tyre, and Zidon, and allthe coasts of Palestine? will ye render me a recompence? and if yerecompense me, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence uponyour own head; 
3:5 Because ye have taken my silver and my gold, andhave carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things: 
3:6 Thechildren also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold untothe Grecians, that ye might remove them far from their border.
3:7 Behold, I will raise them out of the place whither ye have soldthem, and will return your recompence upon your own head: 
3:8 And Iwill sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the childrenof Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people faroff: for the LORD hath spoken it.
3:9 Proclaim ye this among the Gentiles; Prepare war, wake up themighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up: 
3:10 Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruninghooks into spears:let the weak say, I am strong.
3:11 Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gatheryourselves together round about: thither cause thy mighty ones to comedown, O LORD.
3:12 Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley ofJehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge all the heathen roundabout.
3:13 Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get youdown; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickednessis great.
3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day ofthe LORD is near in the valley of decision.
3:15 The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shallwithdraw their shining.
3:16 The LORD also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice fromJerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but the LORDwill be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children ofIsrael.
3:17 So shall ye know that I am the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, myholy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall nostrangers pass through her any more.
3:18 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shalldrop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all therivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall comeforth out of the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley ofShittim.
3:19 Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolatewilderness, for the violence against the children of Judah, becausethey have shed innocent blood in their land.
3:20 But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation togeneration.
3:21 For I will cleanse their blood that I have not cleansed: for theLORD dwelleth in Zion.