1:1 Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the childrenof Israel asked the LORD, saying, Who shall go up for us against theCanaanites first, to fight against them?  
1:2 And the LORD said, Judahshall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
1:3 And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into mylot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will gowith thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
1:4 And Judah went up; and the LORD delivered the Canaanites and thePerizzites into their hand: and they slew of them in Bezek tenthousand men.
1:5 And they found Adonibezek in Bezek: and they fought against him,and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
1:6 But Adonibezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him,and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.
1:7 And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumbsand their great toes cut off, gathered their meat under my table: as Ihave done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem,and there he died.
1:8 Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and hadtaken it, and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and set the cityon fire.
1:9 And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against theCanaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in thevalley.
1:10 And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (nowthe name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Sheshai, andAhiman, and Talmai.
1:11 And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and thename of Debir before was Kirjathsepher: 
1:12 And Caleb said, He thatsmiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah mydaughter to wife.
1:13 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it:and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
1:14 And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him toask of her father a field: and she lighted from off her ass; and Calebsaid unto her, What wilt thou?  
1:15 And she said unto him, Give me ablessing: for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs ofwater. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
1:16 And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father in law, went up outof the city of palm trees with the children of Judah into thewilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they wentand dwelt among the people.
1:17 And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew theCanaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And thename of the city was called Hormah.
1:18 Also Judah took Gaza with the coast thereof, and Askelon with thecoast thereof, and Ekron with the coast thereof.
1:19 And the LORD was with Judah; and he drave out the inhabitants ofthe mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley,because they had chariots of iron.
1:20 And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he expelledthence the three sons of Anak.
1:21 And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites thatinhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children ofBenjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
1:22 And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel: andthe LORD was with them.
1:23 And the house of Joseph sent to descry Bethel. (Now the name ofthe city before was Luz.)  
1:24 And the spies saw a man come forth outof the city, and they said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, theentrance into the city, and we will shew thee mercy.
1:25 And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smotethe city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and allhis family.
1:26 And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city,and called the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto thisday.
1:27 Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Bethshean andher towns, nor Taanach and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor andher towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and her towns, nor theinhabitants of Megiddo and her towns: but the Canaanites would dwellin that land.
1:28 And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put theCanaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drive them out.
1:29 Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer;but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
1:30 Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor theinhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, andbecame tributaries.
1:31 Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Accho, nor theinhabitants of Zidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, norof Aphik, nor of Rehob: 
1:32 But the Asherites dwelt among theCanaanites, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive themout.
1:33 Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Bethshemesh,nor the inhabitants of Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanites,the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants ofBethshemesh and of Bethanath became tributaries unto them.
1:34 And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountain:for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley: 
1:35 Butthe Amorites would dwell in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim:yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they becametributaries.
1:36 And the coast of the Amorites was from the going up to Akrabbim,from the rock, and upward.
2:1 And an angel of the LORD came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said,I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the landwhich I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break mycovenant with you.
2:2 And ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land; yeshall throw down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: whyhave ye done this?  
2:3 Wherefore I also said, I will not drive themout from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, andtheir gods shall be a snare unto you.
2:4 And it came to pass, when the angel of the LORD spake these wordsunto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up theirvoice, and wept.
2:5 And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificedthere unto the LORD.
2:6 And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel wentevery man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
2:7 And the people served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all thedays of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the greatworks of the LORD, that he did for Israel.
2:8 And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being anhundred and ten years old.
2:9 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance inTimnathheres, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hillGaash.
2:10 And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers:and there arose another generation after them, which knew not theLORD, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
2:11 And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, andserved Baalim: 
2:12 And they forsook the LORD God of their fathers,which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods,of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowedthemselves unto them, and provoked the LORD to anger.
2:13 And they forsook the LORD, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
2:14 And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and hedelivered them into the hands of spoilers that spoiled them, and hesold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that theycould not any longer stand before their enemies.
2:15 Whithersoever they went out, the hand of the LORD was againstthem for evil, as the LORD had said, and as the LORD had sworn untothem: and they were greatly distressed.
2:16 Nevertheless the LORD raised up judges, which delivered them outof the hand of those that spoiled them.
2:17 And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they went awhoring after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turnedquickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying thecommandments of the LORD; but they did not so.
2:18 And when the LORD raised them up judges, then the LORD was withthe judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all thedays of the judge: for it repented the LORD because of their groaningsby reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them.
2:19 And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned,and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following othergods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not fromtheir own doings, nor from their stubborn way.
2:20 And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel; and he said,Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which Icommanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice; 
2:21 Ialso will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nationswhich Joshua left when he died: 
2:22 That through them I may proveIsrael, whether they will keep the way of the LORD to walk therein, astheir fathers did keep it, or not.
2:23 Therefore the LORD left those nations, without driving them outhastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
3:1 Now these are the nations which the LORD left, to prove Israel bythem, even as many of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
3:2 Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, toteach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof; 
3:3 Namely, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and theSidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mountBaalhermon unto the entering in of Hamath.
3:4 And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they wouldhearken unto the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded theirfathers by the hand of Moses.
3:5 And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites,and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites: 
3:6 And theytook their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters totheir sons, and served their gods.
3:7 And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, andforgat the LORD their God, and served Baalim and the groves.
3:8 Therefore the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and hesold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: andthe children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years.
3:9 And when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORDraised up a deliverer to the children of Israel, who delivered them,even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
3:10 And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel,and went out to war: and the LORD delivered Chushanrishathaim king ofMesopotamia into his hand; and his hand prevailed againstChushanrishathaim.
3:11 And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenazdied.
3:12 And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of theLORD: and the LORD strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel,because they had done evil in the sight of the LORD.
3:13 And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, andwent and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm trees.
3:14 So the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteenyears.
3:15 But when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORDraised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a manlefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present untoEglon the king of Moab.
3:16 But Ehud made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubitlength; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
3:17 And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon wasa very fat man.
3:18 And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent awaythe people that bare the present.
3:19 But he himself turned again from the quarries that were byGilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who said,Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
3:20 And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour,which he had for himself alone. And Ehud said, I have a message fromGod unto thee.And he arose out of his seat.
3:21 And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from hisright thigh, and thrust it into his belly: 
3:22 And the haft also wentin after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that hecould not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the dirt came out.
3:23 Then Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of theparlour upon him, and locked them.
3:24 When he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that,behold, the doors of the parlour were locked, they said, Surely hecovereth his feet in his summer chamber.
3:25 And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he openednot the doors of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and openedthem: and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.
3:26 And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond thequarries, and escaped unto Seirath.
3:27 And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet inthe mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with himfrom the mount, and he before them.
3:28 And he said unto them, Follow after me: for the LORD hathdelivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went downafter him, and took the fords of Jordan toward Moab, and suffered nota man to pass over.
3:29 And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, alllusty, and all men of valour; and there escaped not a man.
3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And theland had rest fourscore years.
3:31 And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of thePhilistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also deliveredIsrael.
4:1 And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of theLORD, when Ehud was dead.
4:2 And the LORD sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, thatreigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dwelt inHarosheth of the Gentiles.
4:3 And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD: for he had ninehundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed thechildren of Israel.
4:4 And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israelat that time.
4:5 And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah andBethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her forjudgment.
4:6 And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out ofKedeshnaphtali, and said unto him, Hath not the LORD God of Israelcommanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with theeten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children ofZebulun?  
4:7 And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishon Sisera,the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; andI will deliver him into thine hand.
4:8 And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go:but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.
4:9 And she said, I will surely go with thee: notwithstanding thejourney that thou takest shall not be for thine honour; for the LORDshall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, andwent with Barak to Kedesh.
4:10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went upwith ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.
4:11 Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab thefather in law of Moses, had severed himself from the Kenites, andpitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh.
4:12 And they shewed Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone upto mount Tabor.
4:13 And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundredchariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, fromHarosheth of the Gentiles unto the river of Kishon.
4:14 And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which theLORD hath delivered Sisera into thine hand: is not the LORD gone outbefore thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand menafter him.
4:15 And the LORD discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and allhis host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; so that Siseralighted down off his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
4:16 But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, untoHarosheth of the Gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell upon theedge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
4:17 Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wifeof Heber the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king ofHazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
4:18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, mylord, turn in to me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her intothe tent, she covered him with a mantle.
4:19 And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water todrink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave himdrink, and covered him.
4:20 Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and itshall be, when any man doth come and enquire of thee, and say, Isthere any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
4:21 Then Jael Heber's wife took a nail of the tent, and took anhammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail intohis temples, and fastened it into the ground: for he was fast asleepand weary. So he died.
4:22 And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him,and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thouseekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, andthe nail was in his temples.
4:23 So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before thechildren of Israel.
4:24 And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailedagainst Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin kingof Canaan.
5:1 Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day,saying, 
5:2 Praise ye the LORD for the avenging of Israel, when thepeople willingly offered themselves.
5:3 Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will singunto the LORD; I will sing praise to the LORD God of Israel.
5:4 LORD, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out ofthe field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, theclouds also dropped water.
5:5 The mountains melted from before the LORD, even that Sinai frombefore the LORD God of Israel.
5:6 In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, thehighways were unoccupied, and the travellers walked through byways.
5:7 The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel,until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
5:8 They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a shieldor spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?  
5:9 My heart is towardthe governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among thepeople. Bless ye the LORD.
5:10 Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in judgment, andwalk by the way.
5:11 They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the placesof drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of theLORD, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villagesin Israel: then shall the people of the LORD go down to the gates.
5:12 Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak,and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam.
5:13 Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the noblesamong the people: the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty.
5:14 Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; afterthee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors,and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
5:15 And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; even Issachar, andalso Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the divisions ofReuben there were great thoughts of heart.
5:16 Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings ofthe flocks? For the divisions of Reuben there were great searchings ofheart.
5:17 Gilead abode beyond Jordan: and why did Dan remain in ships?Asher continued on the sea shore, and abode in his breaches.
5:18 Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that jeoparded their livesunto the death in the high places of the field.
5:19 The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan inTaanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money.
5:20 They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses foughtagainst Sisera.
5:21 The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, theriver Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
5:22 Then were the horsehoofs broken by the means of the pransings,the pransings of their mighty ones.
5:23 Curse ye Meroz, said the angel of the LORD, curse ye bitterly theinhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of the LORD, tothe help of the LORD against the mighty.
5:24 Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite be,blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
5:25 He asked water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butterin a lordly dish.
5:26 She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen'shammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head,when she had pierced and stricken through his temples.
5:27 At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed,he fell: where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
5:28 The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried throughthe lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry thewheels of his chariots?  
5:29 Her wise ladies answered her, yea, shereturned answer to herself, 
5:30 Have they not sped? have they notdivided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey ofdivers colours, a prey of divers colours of needlework, of diverscolours of needlework on both sides, meet for the necks of them thattake the spoil?  
5:31 So let all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but letthem that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. Andthe land had rest forty years.
6:1 And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD: andthe LORD delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
6:2 And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because ofthe Midianites the children of Israel made them the dens which are inthe mountains, and caves, and strong holds.
6:3 And so it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up,and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came upagainst them; 
6:4 And they encamped against them, and destroyed theincrease of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left nosustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
6:5 For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they cameas grasshoppers for multitude; for both they and their camels werewithout number: and they entered into the land to destroy it.
6:6 And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites; andthe children of Israel cried unto the LORD.
6:7 And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto theLORD because of the Midianites, 
6:8 That the LORD sent a prophet untothe children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the LORD Godof Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out ofthe house of bondage; 
6:9 And I delivered you out of the hand of theEgyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and dravethem out from before you, and gave you their land; 
6:10 And I saidunto you, I am the LORD your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites,in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
6:11 And there came an angel of the LORD, and sat under an oak whichwas in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his sonGideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from theMidianites.
6:12 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him, and said unto him,The LORD is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.
6:13 And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord, if the LORD be with us, whythen is all this befallen us? and where be all his miracles which ourfathers told us of, saying, Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt?but now the LORD hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands ofthe Midianites.
6:14 And the LORD looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, andthou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not Isent thee?  
6:15 And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall Isave Israel?  behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am theleast in my father's house.
6:16 And the LORD said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thoushalt smite the Midianites as one man.
6:17 And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me.
6:18 Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bringforth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarryuntil thou come again.
6:19 And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes ofan ephah of flour: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the brothin a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
6:20 And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and theunleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth.And he did so.
6:21 Then the angel of the LORD put forth the end of the staff thatwas in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; andthere rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and theunleavened cakes. Then the angel of the LORD departed out of hissight.
6:22 And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the LORD,Gideon said, Alas, O LORD God! for because I have seen an angel of theLORD face to face.
6:23 And the LORD said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not: thoushalt not die.
6:24 Then Gideon built an altar there unto the LORD, and called itJehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
6:25 And it came to pass the same night, that the LORD said unto him,Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of sevenyears old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, andcut down the grove that is by it: 
6:26 And build an altar unto theLORD thy God upon the top of this rock, in the ordered place, and takethe second bullock, and offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of thegrove which thou shalt cut down.
6:27 Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as the LORD hadsaid unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father'shousehold, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day,that he did it by night.
6:28 And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold,the altar of Baal was cast down, and the grove was cut down that wasby it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that wasbuilt.
6:29 And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And whenthey enquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath donethis thing.
6:30 Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son, thathe may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and becausehe hath cut down the grove that was by it.
6:31 And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead forBaal? will ye save him? he that will plead for him, let him be put todeath whilst it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead forhimself, because one hath cast down his altar.
6:32 Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baalplead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
6:33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children ofthe east were gathered together, and went over, and pitched in thevalley of Jezreel.
6:34 But the Spirit of the LORD came upon Gideon, and he blew atrumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
6:35 And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also wasgathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and untoZebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
6:36 And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by mine hand,as thou hast said, 
6:37 Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in thefloor; and if the dew be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon allthe earth beside, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by minehand, as thou hast said.
6:38 And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust thefleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full ofwater.
6:39 And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me,and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but thisonce with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and uponall the ground let there be dew.
6:40 And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only,and there was dew on all the ground.
7:1 Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people that were withhim, rose up early, and pitched beside the well of Harod: so that thehost of the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill ofMoreh, in the valley.
7:2 And the LORD said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee aretoo many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israelvaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.
7:3 Now therefore go to, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying,Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early frommount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and twothousand; and there remained ten thousand.
7:4 And the LORD said unto Gideon, The people are yet too many; bringthem down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and itshall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, thesame shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shallnot go with thee, the same shall not go.
7:5 So he brought down the people unto the water: and the LORD saidunto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as adog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one thatboweth down upon his knees to drink.
7:6 And the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to theirmouth, were three hundred men: but all the rest of the people boweddown upon their knees to drink water.
7:7 And the LORD said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men thatlapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand:and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
7:8 So the people took victuals in their hand, and their trumpets: andhe sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retainedthose three hundred men: and the host of Midian was beneath him in thevalley.
7:9 And it came to pass the same night, that the LORD said unto him,Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thinehand.
7:10 But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant downto the host: 
7:11 And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwardshall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. Then wenthe down with Phurah his servant unto the outside of the armed men thatwere in the host.
7:12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of theeast lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; andtheir camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side formultitude.
7:13 And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told adream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, acake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto atent, and smote it that it fell, and overturned it, that the tent layalong.
7:14 And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save thesword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for into his handhath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
7:15 And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, andthe interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into thehost of Israel, and said, Arise; for the LORD hath delivered into yourhand the host of Midian.
7:16 And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and heput a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers, and lampswithin the pitchers.
7:17 And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold,when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, soshall ye do.
7:18 When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blowye the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The swordof the LORD, and of Gideon.
7:19 So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto theoutside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch; and they hadbut newly set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake thepitchers that were in their hands.
7:20 And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake thepitchers, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets intheir right hands to blow withal: and they cried, The sword of theLORD, and of Gideon.
7:21 And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; andall the host ran, and cried, and fled.
7:22 And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the LORD set everyman's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host: and thehost fled to Bethshittah in Zererath, and to the border ofAbelmeholah, unto Tabbath.
7:23 And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out ofNaphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued afterthe Midianites.
7:24 And Gideon sent messengers throughout all mount Ephraim, saying,come down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters untoBethbarah and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselvestogether, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and Jordan.
7:25 And they took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; andthey slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepressof Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb toGideon on the other side Jordan.
8:1 And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served usthus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with theMidianites?  And they did chide with him sharply.
8:2 And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you?Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintageof Abiezer?  
8:3 God hath delivered into your hands the princes ofMidian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you?Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
8:4 And Gideon came to Jordan, and passed over, he, and the threehundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them.
8:5 And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves ofbread unto the people that follow me; for they be faint, and I ampursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
8:6 And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah andZalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thine army?
8:7 And Gideon said, Therefore when the LORD hath delivered Zebah andZalmunna into mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thornsof the wilderness and with briers.
8:8 And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: andthe men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered him.
8:9 And he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I comeagain in peace, I will break down this tower.
8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them,about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of thechildren of the east: for there fell an hundred and twenty thousandmen that drew sword.
8:11 And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on theeast of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host; for the host wassecure.
8:12 And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and tookthe two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all thehost.
8:13 And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sunwas up, 
8:14 And caught a young man of the men of Succoth, andenquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, andthe elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
8:15 And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah andZalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebahand Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy menthat are weary?  
8:16 And he took the elders of the city, and thornsof the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men ofSuccoth.
8:17 And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of thecity.
8:18 Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men werethey whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so werethey; each one resembled the children of a king.
8:19 And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother:as the LORD liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you.
8:20 And he said unto Jether his firstborn, Up, and slay them. But theyouth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth.
8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for asthe man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah andZalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were on their camels'necks.
8:22 Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, boththou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered usfrom the hand of Midian.
8:23 And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neithershall my son rule over you: the LORD shall rule over you.
8:24 And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you, thatye would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (For they hadgolden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)  
8:25 And theyanswered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, anddid cast therein every man the earrings of his prey.
8:26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was athousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; beside ornaments, andcollars, and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian, andbeside the chains that were about their camels' necks.
8:27 And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even inOphrah: and all Israel went thither a whoring after it: which thingbecame a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.
8:28 Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, so thatthey lifted up their heads no more. And the country was in quietnessforty years in the days of Gideon.
8:29 And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
8:30 And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his body begotten: forhe had many wives.
8:31 And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son,whose name he called Abimelech.
8:32 And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and wasburied in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of theAbiezrites.
8:33 And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that thechildren of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after Baalim, andmade Baalberith their god.
8:34 And the children of Israel remembered not the LORD their God, whohad delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies on everyside: 
8:35 Neither shewed they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal,namely, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shewed untoIsrael.
9:1 And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem unto hismother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family ofthe house of his mother's father, saying, 
9:2 Speak, I pray you, inthe ears of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, eitherthat all the sons of Jerubbaal, which are threescore and ten persons,reign over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I amyour bone and your flesh.
9:3 And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the menof Shechem all these words: and their hearts inclined to followAbimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
9:4 And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of thehouse of Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons,which followed him.
9:5 And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew hisbrethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, uponone stone: notwithstanding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaalwas left; for he hid himself.
9:6 And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house ofMillo, and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillarthat was in Shechem.
9:7 And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top ofmount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them,Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
9:8 The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; andthey said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us.
9:9 But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness,wherewith by me they honour God and man, and go to be promoted overthe trees?  
9:10 And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, andreign over us.
9:11 But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness,and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?  
9:12 Thensaid the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
9:13 And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, whichcheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?  
9:14 Thensaid all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, and reign over us.
9:15 And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint meking over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow: and if not,let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
9:16 Now therefore, if ye have done truly and sincerely, in that yehave made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal andhis house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of hishands; 
9:17 (For my father fought for you, and adventured his lifefar, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian: 
9:18 And ye arerisen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons,threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech,the son of his maidservant, king over the men of Shechem, because heis your brother;) 
9:19 If ye then have dealt truly and sincerely withJerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech,and let him also rejoice in you: 
9:20 But if not, let fire come outfrom Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo;and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house ofMillo, and devour Abimelech.
9:21 And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there,for fear of Abimelech his brother.
9:22 When Abimelech had reigned three years over Israel, 
9:23 Then Godsent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and themen of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech: 
9:24 That thecruelty done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come,and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them;and upon the men of Shechem, which aided him in the killing of hisbrethren.
9:25 And the men of Shechem set liers in wait for him in the top ofthe mountains, and they robbed all that came along that way by them:and it was told Abimelech.
9:26 And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over toShechem: and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
9:27 And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards,and trode the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of theirgod, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
9:28 And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who isShechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbaal? andZebul his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: forwhy should we serve him?  
9:29 And would to God this people were undermy hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech,Increase thine army, and come out.
9:30 And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal theson of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
9:31 And he sent messengers unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold,Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren be come to Shechem; and, behold,they fortify the city against thee.
9:32 Now therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee,and lie in wait in the field: 
9:33 And it shall be, that in themorning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and set uponthe city: and, behold, when he and the people that is with him comeout against thee, then mayest thou do to them as thou shalt findoccasion.
9:34 And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, bynight, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
9:35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entering ofthe gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that werewith him, from lying in wait.
9:36 And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Behold, therecome people down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said untohim, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
9:37 And Gaal spake again, and said, See there come people down by themiddle of the land, and another company come along by the plain ofMeonenim.
9:38 Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, wherewith thousaidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this thepeople that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight withthem.
9:39 And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought withAbimelech.
9:40 And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many wereoverthrown and wounded, even unto the entering of the gate.
9:41 And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and hisbrethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
9:42 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out intothe field; and they told Abimelech.
9:43 And he took the people, and divided them into three companies,and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people werecome forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smotethem.
9:44 And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, rushed forward,and stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and the two othercompanies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slewthem.
9:45 And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he tookthe city, and slew the people that was therein, and beat down thecity, and sowed it with salt.
9:46 And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, theyentered into an hold of the house of the god Berith.
9:47 And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower ofShechem were gathered together.
9:48 And Abimelech gat him up to mount Zalmon, he and all the peoplethat were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cutdown a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder,and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do,make haste, and do as I have done.
9:49 And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, andfollowed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set the hold on fireupon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also,about a thousand men and women.
9:50 Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, andtook it.
9:51 But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fledall the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it to them,and gat them up to the top of the tower.
9:52 And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, andwent hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
9:53 And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech'shead, and all to brake his skull.
9:54 Then he called hastily unto the young man his armourbearer, andsaid unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, Awomen slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
9:55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, theydeparted every man unto his place.
9:56 Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did untohis father, in slaying his seventy brethren: 
9:57 And all the evil ofthe men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them camethe curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
10:1 And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola the son ofPuah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir inmount Ephraim.
10:2 And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and wasburied in Shamir.
10:3 And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twentyand two years.
10:4 And he had thirty sons that rode on thirty ass colts, and theyhad thirty cities, which are called Havothjair unto this day, whichare in the land of Gilead.
10:5 And Jair died, and was buried in Camon.
10:6 And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of theLORD, and served Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and thegods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children ofAmmon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook the LORD, andserved not him.
10:7 And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he soldthem into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of thechildren of Ammon.
10:8 And that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel:eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were on the other sideJordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
10:9 Moreover the children of Ammon passed over Jordan to fight alsoagainst Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim;so that Israel was sore distressed.
10:10 And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, saying, We havesinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and alsoserved Baalim.
10:11 And the LORD said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliveryou from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children ofAmmon, and from the Philistines?  
10:12 The Zidonians also, and theAmalekites, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and ye cried to me, andI delivered you out of their hand.
10:13 Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I willdeliver you no more.
10:14 Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliveryou in the time of your tribulation.
10:15 And the children of Israel said unto the LORD, We have sinned:do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee; deliver us only, wepray thee, this day.
10:16 And they put away the strange gods from among them, and servedthe LORD: and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.
10:17 Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encampedin Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together,and encamped in Mizpeh.
10:18 And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, Whatman is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? heshall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
11:1 Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour, and he wasthe son of an harlot: and Gilead begat Jephthah.
11:2 And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up, andthey thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit inour father's house; for thou art the son of a strange woman.
11:3 Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land ofTob: and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went out withhim.
11:4 And it came to pass in process of time, that the children ofAmmon made war against Israel.
11:5 And it was so, that when the children of Ammon made war againstIsrael, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land ofTob: 
11:6 And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, thatwe may fight with the children of Ammon.
11:7 And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me,and expel me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me nowwhen ye are in distress?  
11:8 And the elders of Gilead said untoJephthah, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest gowith us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head overall the inhabitants of Gilead.
11:9 And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me homeagain to fight against the children of Ammon, and the LORD deliverthem before me, shall I be your head?  
11:10 And the elders of Gileadsaid unto Jephthah, The LORD be witness between us, if we do not soaccording to thy words.
11:11 Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the peoplemade him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all hiswords before the LORD in Mizpeh.
11:12 And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children ofAmmon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art comeagainst me to fight in my land?  
11:13 And the king of the children ofAmmon answered unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel tookaway my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from Arnon even untoJabbok, and unto Jordan: now therefore restore those lands againpeaceably.
11:14 And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the childrenof Ammon: 
11:15 And said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel tooknot away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
11:16 But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through thewilderness unto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh; 
11:17 Then Israelsent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee,pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken thereto.And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab: but he would notconsent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
11:18 Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed theland of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of theland of Moab, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, but came notwithin the border of Moab: for Arnon was the border of Moab.
11:19 And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, theking of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee,through thy land into my place.
11:20 But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his coast: butSihon gathered all his people together, and pitched in Jahaz, andfought against Israel.
11:21 And the LORD God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his peopleinto the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed allthe land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
11:22 And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from Arnoneven unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto Jordan.
11:23 So now the LORD God of Israel hath dispossessed the Amoritesfrom before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?  
11:24 Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee topossess? So whomsoever the LORD our God shall drive out from beforeus, them will we possess.
11:25 And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor,king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fightagainst them, 
11:26 While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her towns, andin Aroer and her towns, and in all the cities that be along by thecoasts of Arnon, three hundred years? why therefore did ye not recoverthem within that time?  
11:27 Wherefore I have not sinned againstthee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: the LORD the Judge bejudge this day between the children of Israel and the children ofAmmon.
11:28 Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto thewords of Jephthah which he sent him.
11:29 Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jephthah, and he passedover Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and fromMizpeh of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
11:30 And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou shaltwithout fail deliver the children of Ammon into mine hands, 
11:31 Thenit shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house tomeet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shallsurely be the LORD's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering.
11:32 So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fightagainst them; and the LORD delivered them into his hands.
11:33 And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith,even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a verygreat slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before thechildren of Israel.
11:34 And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, behold, hisdaughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and shewas his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
11:35 And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes,and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thouart one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto theLORD, and I cannot go back.
11:36 And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouthunto the LORD, do to me according to that which hath proceeded out ofthy mouth; forasmuch as the LORD hath taken vengeance for thee ofthine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
11:37 And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: letme alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, andbewail my virginity, I and my fellows.
11:38 And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and shewent with her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon themountains.
11:39 And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returnedunto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he hadvowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel, 
11:40 Thatthe daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthahthe Gileadite four days in a year.
12:1 And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and wentnorthward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over tofight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go withthee? we will burn thine house upon thee with fire.
12:2 And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strifewith the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me notout of their hands.
12:3 And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in myhands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and the LORDdelivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto methis day, to fight against me?  
12:4 Then Jephthah gathered togetherall the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gileadsmote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives ofEphraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.
12:5 And the Gileadites took the passages of Jordan before theEphraimites: and it was so, that when those Ephraimites which wereescaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him,Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay; 
12:6 Then said they unto him,Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame topronounce it right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passagesof Jordan: and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty andtwo thousand.
12:7 And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah theGileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
12:8 And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
12:9 And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sentabroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And hejudged Israel seven years.
12:10 Then died Ibzan, and was buried at Bethlehem.
12:11 And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judgedIsrael ten years.
12:12 And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in thecountry of Zebulun.
12:13 And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judgedIsrael.
12:14 And he had forty sons and thirty nephews, that rode onthreescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
12:15 And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buriedin Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
13:1 And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of theLORD; and the LORD delivered them into the hand of the Philistinesforty years.
13:2 And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of theDanites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
13:3 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto the woman, and said untoher, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not: but thou shaltconceive, and bear a son.
13:4 Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strongdrink, and eat not any unclean thing: 
13:5 For, lo, thou shaltconceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: for thechild shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall beginto deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
13:6 Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of Godcame unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angelof God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither toldhe me his name: 
13:7 But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive,and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eatany unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from thewomb to the day of his death.
13:8 Then Manoah intreated the LORD, and said, O my Lord, let the manof God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what weshall do unto the child that shall be born.
13:9 And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of Godcame again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah herhusband was not with her.
13:10 And the woman made haste, and ran, and shewed her husband, andsaid unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came untome the other day.
13:11 And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man,and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? Andhe said, I am.
13:12 And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall weorder the child, and how shall we do unto him?  
13:13 And the angel ofthe LORD said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let herbeware.
13:14 She may not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neitherlet her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: allthat I commanded her let her observe.
13:15 And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, I pray thee, let usdetain thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.
13:16 And the angel of the LORD said unto Manoah, Though thou detainme, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burntoffering, thou must offer it unto the LORD. For Manoah knew not thathe was an angel of the LORD.
13:17 And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, What is thy name,that when thy sayings come to pass we may do thee honour?  
13:18 Andthe angel of the LORD said unto him, Why askest thou thus after myname, seeing it is secret?  
13:19 So Manoah took a kid with a meatoffering, and offered it upon a rock unto the LORD: and the angel didwonderously; and Manoah and his wife looked on.
13:20 For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven fromoff the altar, that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of thealtar. And Manoah and his wife looked on it, and fell on their facesto the ground.
13:21 But the angel of the LORD did no more appear to Manoah and tohis wife. Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of the LORD.
13:22 And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because wehave seen God.
13:23 But his wife said unto him, If the LORD were pleased to kill us,he would not have received a burnt offering and a meat offering at ourhands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor would asat this time have told us such things as these.
13:24 And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and thechild grew, and the LORD blessed him.
13:25 And the Spirit of the LORD began to move him at times in thecamp of Dan between Zorah and Eshtaol.
14:1 And Samson went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath ofthe daughters of the Philistines.
14:2 And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, Ihave seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines: nowtherefore get her for me to wife.
14:3 Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never awoman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people,that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? AndSamson said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
14:4 But his father and his mother knew not that it was of the LORD,that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that timethe Philistines had dominion over Israel.
14:5 Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnath,and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roaredagainst him.
14:6 And the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and he renthim as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: buthe told not his father or his mother what he had done.
14:7 And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleasedSamson well.
14:8 And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside tosee the carcase of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of beesand honey in the carcase of the lion.
14:9 And he took thereof in his hands, and went on eating, and came tohis father and mother, and he gave them, and they did eat: but he toldnot them that he had taken the honey out of the carcase of the lion.
14:10 So his father went down unto the woman: and Samson made there afeast; for so used the young men to do.
14:11 And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirtycompanions to be with him.
14:12 And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle untoyou: if ye can certainly declare it me within the seven days of thefeast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirtychange of garments: 
14:13 But if ye cannot declare it me, then shallye give me thirty sheets and thirty change of garments. And they saidunto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
14:14 And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and outof the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three daysexpound the riddle.
14:15 And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said untoSamson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us theriddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have yecalled us to take that we have? is it not so?  
14:16 And Samson's wifewept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not:thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hastnot told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it myfather nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?  
14:17 And she weptbefore him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came topass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore uponhim: and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
14:18 And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day beforethe sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? And what is strongerthan a lion?  and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with myheifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
14:19 And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he went down toAshkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gavechange of garments unto them which expounded the riddle. And his angerwas kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
14:20 But Samson's wife was given to his companion, whom he had usedas his friend.
15:1 But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheatharvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I willgo in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer himto go in.
15:2 And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterlyhated her; therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her youngersister fairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
15:3 And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more blamelessthan the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure.
15:4 And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and tookfirebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midstbetween two tails.
15:5 And when he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into thestanding corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, andalso the standing corn, with the vineyards and olives.
15:6 Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered,Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife,and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnther and her father with fire.
15:7 And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will Ibe avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
15:8 And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and hewent down and dwelt in the top of the rock Etam.
15:9 Then the Philistines went up, and pitched in Judah, and spreadthemselves in Lehi.
15:10 And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? Andthey answered, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hathdone to us.
15:11 Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rockEtam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines arerulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he saidunto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
15:12 And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that wemay deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson saidunto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
15:13 And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast,and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee.And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from therock.
15:14 And when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him:and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and the cords thatwere upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and hisbands loosed from off his hands.
15:15 And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand,and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
15:16 And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps,with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
15:17 And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, thathe cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that placeRamathlehi.
15:18 And he was sore athirst, and called on the LORD, and said, Thouhast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: andnow shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of theuncircumcised?  
15:19 But God clave an hollow place that was in thejaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spiritcame again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereofEnhakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
15:20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twentyyears.
16:1 Then went Samson to Gaza, and saw there an harlot, and went inunto her.
16:2 And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. Andthey compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate ofthe city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, whenit is day, we shall kill him.
16:3 And Samson lay till midnight, and arose at midnight, and took thedoors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away withthem, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried themup to the top of an hill that is before Hebron.
16:4 And it came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in thevalley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
16:5 And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said untoher, Entice him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and by whatmeans we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him;and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
16:6 And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thygreat strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflictthee.
16:7 And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withsthat were never dried, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
16:8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven greenwiths which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
16:9 Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in thechamber.And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And hebrake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth thefire. So his strength was not known.
16:10 And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, andtold me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest bebound.
16:11 And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes thatnever were occupied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
16:12 Delilah therefore took new ropes, and bound him therewith, andsaid unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there wereliers in wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off hisarms like a thread.
16:13 And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, andtold me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he saidunto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.
16:14 And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, ThePhilistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, andwent away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.
16:15 And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, whenthine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, andhast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.
16:16 And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words,and urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death; 
16:17 That hetold her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razorupon mine head; for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother'swomb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shallbecome weak, and be like any other man.
16:18 And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, shesent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up thisonce, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of thePhilistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
16:19 And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man,and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and shebegan to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
16:20 And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awokeout of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before,and shake myself. And he wist not that the LORD was departed from him.
16:21 But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and broughthim down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he didgrind in the prison house.
16:22 Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he wasshaven.
16:23 Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for tooffer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice: for theysaid, Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.
16:24 And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for theysaid, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and thedestroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
16:25 And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry, that theysaid, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called forSamson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they sethim between the pillars.
16:26 And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Sufferme that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that Imay lean upon them.
16:27 Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords ofthe Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about threethousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.
16:28 And Samson called unto the LORD, and said, O Lord God, rememberme, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, OGod, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
16:29 And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which thehouse stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his righthand, and of the other with his left.
16:30 And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowedhimself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, andupon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew athis death were more than they which he slew in his life.
16:31 Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, andtook him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaolin the buryingplace of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twentyyears.
17:1 And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
17:2 And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silverthat were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst, and spakest ofalso in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And hismother said, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my son.
17:3 And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver tohis mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver untothe LORD from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a moltenimage: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
17:4 Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother tooktwo hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the founder, who madethereof a graven image and a molten image: and they were in the houseof Micah.
17:5 And the man Micah had an house of gods, and made an ephod, andteraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
17:6 In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did thatwhich was right in his own eyes.
17:7 And there was a young man out of Bethlehemjudah of the family ofJudah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
17:8 And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehemjudah tosojourn where he could find a place: and he came to mount Ephraim tothe house of Micah, as he journeyed.
17:9 And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said untohim, I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I mayfind a place.
17:10 And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a fatherand a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year,and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
17:11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the youngman was unto him as one of his sons.
17:12 And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became hispriest, and was in the house of Micah.
17:13 Then said Micah, Now know I that the LORD will do me good,seeing I have a Levite to my priest.
18:1 In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days thetribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for untothat day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among thetribes of Israel.
18:2 And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from theircoasts, men of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out theland, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land:who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, theylodged there.
18:3 When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of theyoung man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him,Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and whathast thou here?  
18:4 And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealethMicah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
18:5 And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, thatwe may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
18:6 And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before the LORD isyour way wherein ye go.
18:7 Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the peoplethat were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of theZidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land,that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from theZidonians, and had no business with any man.
18:8 And they came unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and theirbrethren said unto them, What say ye?  
18:9 And they said, Arise, thatwe may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, itis very good: and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter topossess the land.
18:10 When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a largeland: for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is nowant of any thing that is in the earth.
18:11 And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out ofZorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons ofwar.
18:12 And they went up, and pitched in Kirjathjearim, in Judah:wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, itis behind Kirjathjearim.
18:13 And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto thehouse of Micah.
18:14 Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country ofLaish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in thesehouses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image?now therefore consider what ye have to do.
18:15 And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of the youngman the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
18:16 And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war,which were of the children of Dan, stood by the entering of the gate.
18:17 And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and camein thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and theteraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood in the enteringof the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weaponsof war.
18:18 And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the carved image,the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said thepriest unto them, What do ye?  
18:19 And they said unto him, Hold thypeace, lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us afather and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto thehouse of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a familyin Israel?  
18:20 And the priest's heart was glad, and he took theephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midstof the people.
18:21 So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and thecattle and the carriage before them.
18:22 And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the menthat were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together,and overtook the children of Dan.
18:23 And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned theirfaces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest withsuch a company?  
18:24 And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which Imade, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? andwhat is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?  
18:25 And thechildren of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us,lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with thelives of thy household.
18:26 And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw thatthey were too strong for him, he turned and went back unto his house.
18:27 And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priestwhich he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quietand secure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burntthe city with fire.
18:28 And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Zidon, andthey had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that liethby Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
18:29 And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dantheir father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the citywas Laish at the first.
18:30 And the children of Dan set up the graven image: and Jonathan,the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were prieststo the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
18:31 And they set them up Micah's graven image, which he made, allthe time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
19:1 And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king inIsrael, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on the side ofmount Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Bethlehemjudah.
19:2 And his concubine played the whore against him, and went awayfrom him unto her father's house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there fourwhole months.
19:3 And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly untoher, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a coupleof asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when thefather of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
19:4 And his father in law, the damsel's father, retained him; and heabode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodgedthere.
19:5 And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they arose early inthe morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father saidunto his son in law, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, andafterward go your way.
19:6 And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together:for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be content, I praythee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.
19:7 And when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him:therefore he lodged there again.
19:8 And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; andthe damsel's father said, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee. And theytarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
19:9 And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, andhis servant, his father in law, the damsel's father, said unto him,Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you tarry allnight: behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thine heartmay be merry; and to morrow get you early on your way, that thoumayest go home.
19:10 But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up anddeparted, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and therewere with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
19:11 And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and theservant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn ininto this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
19:12 And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither intothe city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we willpass over to Gibeah.
19:13 And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to oneof these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
19:14 And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went downupon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
19:15 And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah:and when he went in, he sat him down in a street of the city: forthere was no man that took them into his house to lodging.
19:16 And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of thefield at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned inGibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.
19:17 And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man inthe street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? andwhence comest thou?  
19:18 And he said unto him, We are passing fromBethlehemjudah toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I: andI went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am now going to the house of the LORD;and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
19:19 Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and thereis bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the youngman which is with thy servants: there is no want of any thing.
19:20 And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thywants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
19:21 So he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto theasses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
19:22 Now as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men ofthe city, certain sons of Belial, beset the house round about, andbeat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man,saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we mayknow him.
19:23 And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, andsaid unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly;seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this folly.
19:24 Behold, here is my daughter a maiden, and his concubine; them Iwill bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them what seemethgood unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
19:25 But the men would not hearken to him: so the man took hisconcubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, andabused her all the night until the morning: and when the day began tospring, they let her go.
19:26 Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down atthe door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
19:27 And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of thehouse, and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman hisconcubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands wereupon the threshold.
19:28 And he said unto her, Up, and let us be going. But noneanswered.Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat himunto his place.
19:29 And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laidhold on his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, intotwelve pieces, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.
19:30 And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deeddone nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out ofthe land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take advice, andspeak your minds.
20:1 Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregationwas gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with theland of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpeh.
20:2 And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes ofIsrael, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God,four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
20:3 (Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israelwere gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us,how was this wickedness?  
20:4 And the Levite, the husband of thewoman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah thatbelongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
20:5 And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house roundabout upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubinehave they forced, that she is dead.
20:6 And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent herthroughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel: for they havecommitted lewdness and folly in Israel.
20:7 Behold, ye are all children of Israel; give here your advice andcounsel.
20:8 And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any ofus go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
20:9 But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah; wewill go up by lot against it; 
20:10 And we will take ten men of anhundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and an hundred of athousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to fetch victual for thepeople, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin,according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
20:11 So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knittogether as one man.
20:12 And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe ofBenjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
20:13 Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial, whichare in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil fromIsrael. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice oftheir brethren the children of Israel.
20:14 But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out ofthe cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children ofIsrael.
20:15 And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out ofthe cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside theinhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
20:16 Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen menlefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and notmiss.
20:17 And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, were numbered fourhundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
20:18 And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house ofGod, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up firstto the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the LORD said,Judah shall go up first.
20:19 And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encampedagainst Gibeah.
20:20 And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; andthe men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them atGibeah.
20:21 And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, anddestroyed down to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty and twothousand men.
20:22 And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and settheir battle again in array in the place where they put themselves inarray the first day.
20:23 (And the children of Israel went up and wept before the LORDuntil even, and asked counsel of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up againto battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the LORDsaid, Go up against him.)  
20:24 And the children of Israel came nearagainst the children of Benjamin the second day.
20:25 And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the secondday, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel againeighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
20:26 Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up,and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before theLORD, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt offerings andpeace offerings before the LORD.
20:27 And the children of Israel enquired of the LORD, (for the ark ofthe covenant of God was there in those days, 
20:28 And Phinehas, theson of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days,)saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children ofBenjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And the LORD said, Go up; forto morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.
20:29 And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeah.
20:30 And the children of Israel went up against the children ofBenjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah,as at other times.
20:31 And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, andwere drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people,and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up tothe house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirtymen of Israel.
20:32 And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down beforeus, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, anddraw them from the city unto the highways.
20:33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and putthemselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers in wait of Israel cameforth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.
20:34 And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of allIsrael, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was nearthem.
20:35 And the LORD smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children ofIsrael destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousandand an hundred men: all these drew the sword.
20:36 So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for themen of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted untothe liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.
20:37 And the liers in wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and theliers in wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with theedge of the sword.
20:38 Now there was an appointed sign between the men of Israel andthe liers in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke riseup out of the city.
20:39 And when the men of Israel retired in the battle, Benjamin beganto smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for theysaid, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
20:40 But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with apillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, behold, theflame of the city ascended up to heaven.
20:41 And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjaminwere amazed: for they saw that evil was come upon them.
20:42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel untothe way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and themwhich came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
20:43 Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them,and trode them down with ease over against Gibeah toward thesunrising.
20:44 And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these weremen of valour.
20:45 And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock ofRimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men;and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men ofthem.
20:46 So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and fivethousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valour.
20:47 But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto therock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
20:48 And the men of Israel turned again upon the children ofBenjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the menof every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: also they seton fire all the cities that they came to.
21:1 Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpeh, saying, There shallnot any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
21:2 And the people came to the house of God, and abode there tilleven before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore; 
21:3 Andsaid, O LORD God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, thatthere should be to day one tribe lacking in Israel?  
21:4 And it cameto pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there analtar, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
21:5 And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all thetribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation unto the LORD?For they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to theLORD to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
21:6 And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin theirbrother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
21:7 How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we havesworn by the LORD that we will not give them of our daughters towives?  
21:8 And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israelthat came not up to Mizpeh to the LORD? And, behold, there came noneto the camp from Jabeshgilead to the assembly.
21:9 For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of theinhabitants of Jabeshgilead there.
21:10 And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of thevaliantest, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitantsof Jabeshgilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and thechildren.
21:11 And this is the thing that ye shall do, Ye shall utterly destroyevery male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead fourhundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any male:and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land ofCanaan.
21:13 And the whole congregation sent some to speak to the children ofBenjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably untothem.
21:14 And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wiveswhich they had saved alive of the women of Jabeshgilead: and yet sothey sufficed them not.
21:15 And the people repented them for Benjamin, because that the LORDhad made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do forwives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out ofBenjamin?  
21:17 And they said, There must be an inheritance for themthat be escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out ofIsrael.
21:18 Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters: for thechildren of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wifeto Benjamin.
21:19 Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of the LORD in Shilohyearly in a place which is on the north side of Bethel, on the eastside of the highway that goeth up from Bethel to Shechem, and on thesouth of Lebonah.
21:20 Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Goand lie in wait in the vineyards; 
21:21 And see, and, behold, if thedaughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out ofthe vineyards, and catch you every man his wife of the daughters ofShiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
21:22 And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come untous to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favourable unto themfor our sakes: because we reserved not to each man his wife in thewar: for ye did not give unto them at this time, that ye should beguilty.
21:23 And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives,according to their number, of them that danced, whom they caught: andthey went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired thecities, and dwelt in them.
21:24 And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, everyman to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thenceevery man to his inheritance.
21:25 In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did thatwhich was right in his own eyes.