1:1 The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
1:2 I have loved you, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thouloved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? saith the LORD: yet I lovedJacob, 
1:3 And I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritagewaste for the dragons of the wilderness.
1:4 Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return andbuild the desolate places; thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shallbuild, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border ofwickedness, and, The people against whom the LORD hath indignation forever.
1:5 And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The LORD will bemagnified from the border of Israel.
1:6 A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I bea father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is myfear? saith the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise myname. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?  
1:7 Ye offerpolluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we pollutedthee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD is contemptible.
1:8 And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if yeoffer the lame and sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thygovernor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saiththe LORD of hosts.
1:9 And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us:this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith theLORD of hosts.
1:10 Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for nought?neither do ye kindle fire on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasurein you, saith the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering atyour hand.
1:11 For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of thesame my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every placeincense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for myname shall be great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts.
1:12 But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD ispolluted; and the fruit thereof, even his meat, is contemptible.
1:13 Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffedat it, saith the LORD of hosts; and ye brought that which was torn,and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should Iaccept this of your hand? saith the LORD.
1:14 But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, andvoweth, and sacrificeth unto the LORD a corrupt thing: for I am agreat King, saith the LORD of hosts, and my name is dreadful among theheathen.
2:1 And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you.
2:2 If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to giveglory unto my name, saith the LORD of hosts, I will even send a curseupon you, and I will curse your blessings: yea, I have cursed themalready, because ye do not lay it to heart.
2:3 Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces,even the dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away withit.
2:4 And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, thatmy covenant might be with Levi, saith the LORD of hosts.
2:5 My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to himfor the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name.
2:6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found inhis lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn manyaway from iniquity.
2:7 For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seekthe law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.
2:8 But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumbleat the law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the LORD ofhosts.
2:9 Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before allthe people, according as ye have not kept my ways, but have beenpartial in the law.
2:10 Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why dowe deal treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning thecovenant of our fathers?  
2:11 Judah hath dealt treacherously, and anabomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hathprofaned the holiness of the LORD which he loved, and hath married thedaughter of a strange god.
2:12 The LORD will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and thescholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth anoffering unto the LORD of hosts.
2:13 And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the LORD withtears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardethnot the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at yourhand.
2:14 Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the LORD hath been witness betweenthee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealttreacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant.
2:15 And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit.And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore takeheed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wifeof his youth.
2:16 For the LORD, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth puttingaway: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD ofhosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal nottreacherously.
2:17 Ye have wearied the LORD with your words. Yet ye say, Whereinhave we wearied him? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good inthe sight of the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the Godof judgment?  
3:1 Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shallprepare the way before me: and the LORD, whom ye seek, shall suddenlycome to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom yedelight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts.
3:2 But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand whenhe appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap:
3:3 And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shallpurify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that theymay offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness.
3:4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant untothe LORD, as in the days of old, and as in former years.
3:5 And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swiftwitness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and againstfalse swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in hiswages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the strangerfrom his right, and fear not me, saith the LORD of hosts.
3:6 For I am the LORD, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob arenot consumed.
3:7 Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mineordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will returnunto you, saith the LORD of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall wereturn?  
3:8 Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say,Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings.
3:9 Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this wholenation.
3:10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may bemeat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD ofhosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you outa blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
3:11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall notdestroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast herfruit before the time in the field, saith the LORD of hosts.
3:12 And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be adelightsome land, saith the LORD of hosts.
3:13 Your words have been stout against me, saith the LORD. Yet yesay, What have we spoken so much against thee?  
3:14 Ye have said, Itis vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept hisordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD ofhosts?  
3:15 And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that workwickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered.
3:16 Then they that feared the LORD spake often one to another: andthe LORD hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance waswritten before him for them that feared the LORD, and that thoughtupon his name.
3:17 And they shall be mine, saith the LORD of hosts, in that day whenI make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his ownson that serveth him.
3:18 Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and thewicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.
4:1 For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and allthe proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and theday that cometh shall burn them up, saith the LORD of hosts, that itshall leave them neither root nor branch.
4:2 But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousnessarise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up ascalves of the stall.
4:3 And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes underthe soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the LORDof hosts.
4:4 Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded untohim in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments.
4:5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming ofthe great and dreadful day of the LORD: 
4:6 And he shall turn theheart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children totheir fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.