1:1 The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
1:2 God is jealous, and the LORD revengeth; the LORD revengeth, and isfurious; the LORD will take vengeance on his adversaries, and hereserveth wrath for his enemies.
1:3 The LORD is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at allacquit the wicked: the LORD hath his way in the whirlwind and in thestorm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
1:4 He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all therivers: Bashan languisheth, and Carmel, and the flower of Lebanonlanguisheth.
1:5 The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth isburned at his presence, yea, the world, and all that dwell therein.
1:6 Who can stand before his indignation? and who can abide in thefierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out like fire, and therocks are thrown down by him.
1:7 The LORD is good, a strong hold in the day of trouble; and heknoweth them that trust in him.
1:8 But with an overrunning flood he will make an utter end of theplace thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemies.
1:9 What do ye imagine against the LORD? he will make an utter end:affliction shall not rise up the second time.
1:10 For while they be folden together as thorns, and while they aredrunken as drunkards, they shall be devoured as stubble fully dry.
1:11 There is one come out of thee, that imagineth evil against theLORD, a wicked counsellor.
1:12 Thus saith the LORD; Though they be quiet, and likewise many, yetthus shall they be cut down, when he shall pass through. Though I haveafflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.
1:13 For now will I break his yoke from off thee, and will burst thybonds in sunder.
1:14 And the LORD hath given a commandment concerning thee, that nomore of thy name be sown: out of the house of thy gods will I cut offthe graven image and the molten image: I will make thy grave; for thouart vile.
1:15 Behold upon the mountains the feet of him that bringeth goodtidings, that publisheth peace! O Judah, keep thy solemn feasts,perform thy vows: for the wicked shall no more pass through thee; heis utterly cut off.
2:1 He that dasheth in pieces is come up before thy face: keep themunition, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy powermightily.
2:2 For the LORD hath turned away the excellency of Jacob, as theexcellency of Israel: for the emptiers have emptied them out, andmarred their vine branches.
2:3 The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are inscarlet: the chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of hispreparation, and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken.
2:4 The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle oneagainst another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, theyshall run like the lightnings.
2:5 He shall recount his worthies: they shall stumble in their walk;they shall make haste to the wall thereof, and the defence shall beprepared.
2:6 The gates of the rivers shall be opened, and the palace shall bedissolved.
2:7 And Huzzab shall be led away captive, she shall be brought up, andher maids shall lead her as with the voice of doves, tabering upontheir breasts.
2:8 But Nineveh is of old like a pool of water: yet they shall fleeaway.Stand, stand, shall they cry; but none shall look back.
2:9 Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold: for there isnone end of the store and glory out of all the pleasant furniture.
2:10 She is empty, and void, and waste: and the heart melteth, and theknees smite together, and much pain is in all loins, and the faces ofthem all gather blackness.
2:11 Where is the dwelling of the lions, and the feedingplace of theyoung lions, where the lion, even the old lion, walked, and the lion'swhelp, and none made them afraid?  
2:12 The lion did tear in piecesenough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled hisholes with prey, and his dens with ravin.
2:13 Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hosts, and I willburn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy younglions: and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice ofthy messengers shall no more be heard.
3:1 Woe to the bloody city! it is all full of lies and robbery; theprey departeth not; 
3:2 The noise of a whip, and the noise of therattling of the wheels, and of the pransing horses, and of the jumpingchariots.
3:3 The horseman lifteth up both the bright sword and the glitteringspear: and there is a multitude of slain, and a great number ofcarcases; and there is none end of their corpses; they stumble upontheir corpses: 
3:4 Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of thewellfavoured harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nationsthrough her whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts.
3:5 Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hosts; and I willdiscover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thynakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame.
3:6 And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile,and will set thee as a gazingstock.
3:7 And it shall come to pass, that all they that look upon thee shallflee from thee, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who will bemoan her?whence shall I seek comforters for thee?  
3:8 Art thou better thanpopulous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had the watersround about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from thesea?  
3:9 Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite;Put and Lubim were thy helpers.
3:10 Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity: her youngchildren also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: andthey cast lots for her honourable men, and all her great men werebound in chains.
3:11 Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shaltseek strength because of the enemy.
3:12 All thy strong holds shall be like fig trees with the firstripefigs: if they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of theeater.
3:13 Behold, thy people in the midst of thee are women: the gates ofthy land shall be set wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shalldevour thy bars.
3:14 Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strong holds: go intoclay, and tread the morter, make strong the brickkiln.
3:15 There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off,it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyself many as thecankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts.
3:16 Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven: thecankerworm spoileth, and fleeth away.
3:17 Thy crowned are as the locusts, and thy captains as the greatgrasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day, but when thesun ariseth they flee away, and their place is not known where theyare.
3:18 Thy shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria: thy nobles shall dwellin the dust: thy people is scattered upon the mountains, and no mangathereth them.
3:19 There is no healing of thy bruise; thy wound is grievous: allthat hear the bruit of thee shall clap the hands over thee: for uponwhom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?